# Why do you want to work for our company?

## Overview
Interviewers ask this question because they want to understand why you are interested in this role at their company and how your goals can solve their needs. When these things align, it’s usually a good match for both parties.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I have been building cloud-based SaaS products for a long time and I have a lot of experience, having learned important lessons as the field has matured.

It is exciting to see a company such as yours, with its rich pedigree in the enterprise on-prem space, venture into the cloud SaaS area.

I have led products that have gone on to serve multiple purposes. For example, when I worked for a company that focused on athletics, I led the design and implementation of a product that helped folks track their runs. It created a heatmap so people could track where they ran.

Placing their runs in context of a physical terrain made our product different, as did the emphasis on fitness where we tracked how many calories they burned. I added features where people could invite their friends for runs, which created community.

As you can see, I have a proven record in being inventive in design and iterative in innovation.

My experience, coupled with your market presence, makes for a winning combination. I can add value right away helping your platform scale. And, your products are exciting for me to try out my ideas to scale for a cross-section of customers.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It provided a crisp career backstory.
* It explained what’s appealing about the company and the role.
* It detailed how a partnership could be mutually beneficial.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question: 

**Create a career narrative.** Explain how the employer and role fit into the larger story of your career, including how you’ve evolved and where you’re headed. If you’re just starting out, connect your goals to the job description.

**Show interest in the company.** Demonstrate that you’re aware of and want to know more about the work they’re doing and will do. Use data points like the company’s product roadmap, potential customers, and response to market trends.

**Tie your future to theirs.** Connect your skills and long-term interests to the company’s direction to show that your interest in them is well-considered and informed. Describe how your skills position you to help them achieve their goals.

## Tips

* Make sure you have a theory that explains career goals. Rather than a sequence of roles and jobs, work backwards from a life landmark and explain how the challenges you seek help you get there.
* Be sure to research the company and its roadmap and culture.
* Give specific examples that show how your skills map to the company’s goals.

---
