# What kind of tech team dynamic do you excel in?

## Overview
Interviewers ask this question to evaluate culture fit. Some companies have a top-down culture where leadership prescribes and employees execute. Others have a more democratized, bottom-up culture. This question is one way to determine whether you’re a match.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I am coming into this interview process as a very experienced candidate. I started out my career at a company that was very methodical and top-down, and over my career I have seen innovation occur in a very decentralized bottom-up approach. Managers, in this later context, are mentors and colleagues as much as they are bosses.

I have tried to shape and gravitate towards team dynamics where senior leadership sets clear parameters for conduct and goals to achieve—without micromanaging all the execution details. In effect, I aim for the best of both worlds.

The overall dynamic should be geared towards innovating, hopefully in a fail-fast incremental basis that enables us to delight our customers and allows us to learn from their feedback. This makes work exciting and meaningful and would keep our offering fresh.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It showed two contrasting choices with clear tradeoffs.
* It used the question to demonstrate experience.
* It made the case that you don’t need to choose between the two options and that both can co-exist and help teams succeed. 
* It closed with a focus on tangible outcomes dedicated to the customer, which is a great touch—especially with an approach geared towards learning.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question: 

**Show that you’ve done your homework.** Let them know that you’ve researched the company. Use tools like LinkedIn, Glassdoor and other networking platforms to find out how the company operates, makes decisions, and shapes its work.

**Demonstrate self-awareness.** Companies care that you know what you want, the conditions in which you excel, and how you will show flexibility to adapt to varying styles. A lot of behavioral situations have no right or wrong answer but are a window into your self-awareness and preference given the impact of engineering teams and products.

Self-aware candidates know what they want, know which working conditions help them thrive, and know their comfort level with adapting to varying working styles.

**Indicate a preference.** Varying team dynamics affect people differently. So, it would be great for you to stake out what has and hasn’t worked before. Then express how you intend to have those experiences shape your future choices and methods.

## Tips

* Don’t automatically customize your answer for the company. This is your chance to show what matters to you.
* Be sure to research the company and how its culture plays out day to day.
* Explain how your working style will shape your operations if you were to get the job and accept it.

---
