# Let’s say there are two kinds of tech workers: the innovators and the executors. Which of these categories do you fit into?

## Overview
Interviewers ask this question to evaluate your career goals and match them to what they feel the ideal candidate needs to be. More than culture fit, this could be a way to gauge fit for this role or other roles that may be open.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I believe that engineers need to have a sense of the larger product vision. Additionally, they also need to understand what it takes to execute and get an idea from 0 to 1.

At present, I still want to stay close to the execution since I enjoy the thrill of iterating on a product, getting smaller features out, receiving feedback, and finally getting an MVP out the door to push growth and revenue.

Eventually, I want to lead a suite of products that will help our strategic vision of creating a connected workforce and establish a track record of delivering products that will set me up for success. I feel like I can help your company accomplish its product roadmap and boost my own career in the process.

Why this answer worked well:

* The candidate co-opted both approaches and still made an explicit choice.
* It explained why one approach was chosen over the other.
* The candidate framed the choice as part of a larger career journey rather than a random choice.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Feel free to ask questions.** You should ask if the company feels engineers can be either innovators or executors—but not both. Another follow-up question could be whether the company believes that an engineer can alternate between those roles.

**Frame the choice in terms of culture and role.** It is easiest to work backwards from what makes the role successful. Anchor the answer in the success metrics, use the company culture as a foundation, and describe your own working style as the guide.

**Make a case for what you want.** The answer to this question depends on your current level of experience and what you’re seeing for yourself in your next role. Whether you are a strategic thinker who prefers cross-functional alignment, or conversely if you prefer brass tacks executions, use this opportunity to share your thoughts.

## Tips

* Pause for a few moments and understand what the choices presented mean to you.
* Explain how the choices will impact the role.
* Explain how your approach will set you and the company up for success.

---
