# How do you measure success for yourself technically?

## Overview
Companies will give you feedback using different methods like annual reviews, ongoing areas of growth, etc. However, in an increasingly self-directed workplace, companies want engineers to set measurable goals for success. This question aims to assess how self-directed you can be.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I think an example will explain both how I focus on the customers and how helping them defines my success. 

In my roles as a professional services engineer, I have to make our products more configurable so that customers can create settings that meet their needs. Since our products are inherently very flexible, it makes no sense that all customers are forced to use the same settings. I have built tools that allow customers to easily toggle options and make the tools work the way they want.

I measure my success in flawlessly deploying these features in a timely fashion and ensuring that a diverse set of customers adopt our tools, which leads to customer loyalty and growth in revenue.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate was customer-centric, which is an increasingly desired quality in tech candidates.
* The candidate explained product capability and how the work made more of it possible for the end users.
* The success criteria were measurable.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Define the problem.** You can’t define or measure success unless you understand what objectives you or your team were set out to accomplish. Feel free to use past examples to show how you have handled this before.

**Identify the stakeholders and customers.** Define the problem through the lens of how it affects someone or something, and then explain how your approach will address that gap in a measurable way.

**Explain how you’ll approach and evaluate its effectiveness.** Having defined the problem and how it affects users or stakeholders, explain your approach and desired end result. Then describe how you will verify that your approach produced the outcome you wanted.

## Tips

* Don’t immediately jump into the metrics. Come up with a mental structure to frame your answer.
* Define success by way of a status quo; how you seek to improve it and how you will measure that improvement.
* Make sure your success criteria have an objective and subjective component to them.

---
