# Why do you think that technical teams need to be inclusive and represent a variety of backgrounds?

## Overview
Hiring managers increasingly realize that teams that include diverse perspectives are both fairer and more successful. This question will test your awareness of this issue as well as how you could contribute to it.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Inclusivity is about ensuring your team and its products reflect the world we live in and the improvements we wish to make.

In my previous role, I led a team of engineers to build chat features so customer service divisions could easily type messages in English. We had a new team member join whose spoken language was not English. Using her insights, we were able to build a new feature that auto-completed messages for non-native English speakers so the tool becomes more accessible for them.

This is what inclusivity means to me: inclusive teams make more inclusive products, which means happier customers and more growth and revenue.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It defined the term clearly right away.
* It showed how using inclusivity in a team as a bridge to products and customers makes an example more relatable.
* It married the definition of inclusivity with measurable outcomes, which is a great way to close out the answer.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Define the term.** Inclusivity can mean different things depending on personal experience, so be sure to clarify what “inclusivity” means to you.

**Outline the opportunity.** Demonstrate a situation where tech teams struggle to bring everyone along and how you can help make that better.

**Carve out a solution.** Make a strong case for inclusivity as the right thing to do and as a tool to help achieve your mission and serve your customers.

## Tips

* Define terms early or ask for clarification.
* Remember to incorporate the definition into the questions’s premise, which is focused on the team.
* Explain how inclusivity pays off in the long run.

---
