# When you join a new technical initiative, what is the first thing you do?

## Overview
The first few weeks for a new employee are critical. They are an opportunity to learn and build relationships. This question will help assess how the candidate sizes up the challenge ahead of them were they to get the job.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Based on my research, I have found that your company prefers for incoming engineers to get their hands dirty right away. They learn by joining existing initiatives, shadowing engineering leads and completing tasks that enable them to learn the stack and forge relationships.

I will find an area that is short of help, and I am optimistic that such needs exist given your company’s four key growth areas. Having done that, I’ll also help debug and scale existing capabilities. That will give me a sense of the core and tech landscape while adding value as well.

Upon demonstrating my capabilities, I will start setting goals to own specific functionality that I can take from 0 to 1, with the trust of the team that I will have earned in my early days.

Why this answer worked well:

* It was based in the company culture, which showed prior effort to gain knowledge and research.
* It demonstrated an onboarding strategy crafted to produce near and long-term wins.
* It ended on an aspirational note about ownership.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Articulate what “early period” means.** Hiring managers love to hear how you see yourself starting out in a company, but keep in mind that what constitutes "early period" can mean different things to different companies. For example, in some companies, new employees are expected to contribute right away while in others there is a longer period of onboarding. Show that you can tailor your vision to the company.

**Set out a game plan.** Lay out how you would spend your first few weeks in some detail.

**Explain how you will transition.** The early “honeymoon” period is intended to set you and your team up for future success. Explain how you will make that happen.

## Tips

* Tie your plans to the company culture.
* Ensure your plans set you and the company up for success.
* Shown awareness of areas you can help with right away and areas you can own later on.

---
