# If you had to pick between owning the entire process for one product versus contributing to multiple products at once, how would you decide?

## Overview
This question deals with both culture fit and how you approach choices. There is no right or wrong answer as such, but you do need to show that you make choices thoughtfully and deliberately.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Contributing to multiple projects at once had given me a great perspective on the business as a whole and offered me the chance to develop relationships across functions and share responsibility with others on my team.

On the other hand, I do see how owning a project puts you in a leadership role, and while the broad visibility may vary depending on the project, it is a chance to build domain expertise.

Because I have done a lot of my work so far in the former model, I now feel prepared to own something and lead it to fruition. Based on shared learnings and the diversity of projects I have worked on, I can pour all of that into something I can build from the ground up.

I know that the company has recently acquired several subsidiaries, so having someone come in and own the technical integration work is important, and I look forward to that challenge.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It shaped the choices in terms of impact and contributions rather than focusing on the candidate’s own needs.
* It explained previous work and how the new challenge represents a break as well as a continuation of the candidate’s career goals.
* Ending on a note about how the candidate’s choice helps the company mission was a smart approach.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Explain choices and tradeoffs.** Co-owning multiple projects versus singularly owning multiple projects is a choice between breadth and depth as well as between cross-functional visibility and demonstrable impact.

**Spell out what your current situation is.** This is where you explain which of the two situations you’re currently working in or have experience with.

**Explain your decision-making.** Based on the trade-offs and your status quo, you’ll want to explain what you are aiming for and how that helps the company.

## Tips

* Show that you understand the choices and how they differ.
* Make sure you explain why your choice matters to your career.
* Remember to explain how this helps the company, not just you.

---
