# If you were stuck in solving a technical problem, how would you ask for help?

## Overview
This question will help assess how you will relate to other technical experts. The interviewer is looking for technical judgment combined with relationship-building skills.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Engineering work can be very context-sensitive but still have a high impact. That is, I may have a unique understanding of something I am building, like a system architecture or code. Still, it could impact others if I am stuck or get things wrong.

In that event, if I am stuck, who and when I ask for help depends on how time-sensitive the task is, where I am in the project life-cycle, and whether I have exhausted all the tools available to me.

Let’s assume that I am stuck in system architecture. I’d make sure I have a well-thought-out diagram and come prepared with options and specific questions. If it is code, then it gets tricker since it is hard to debug someone else’s code. In that case, I’d want to isolate the specific area that is incorrect, present the expected and demonstrated behaviors, and seek out debugging tips.

Once I am unblocked, I would document my decisions and outcomes so as to create a living resource for anyone else who has the same issues down the line.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It showed how to manage working with diverse technical issues as well as the impact of not asking for help.
* It talked about what to do before seeking help and tailored it to the task at hand.
* It showed that paying it forward, in case someone else needs help, is professional courtesy and will help the team scale as well.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Explain choices and tradeoffs.** There are no fixed answers here; asking for help too soon may make you seem technically inadequate, while waiting for too long could lead to wasted work and delays. Explain that you will also account for the type of work you are doing when asking for help..

**Talk about your decision-criteria.** When you ask for help and who you ask depends on the urgency of the situation and what resources are available to you. This context will help explain that you are not choosing blindly.

**Spell out your approach.** Explain what you will do to get yourself unblocked first. Then call out exactly what help you will seek and explain how you will drive the work to closure.

## Tips

* Don’t cut to the chase and state what you’d ask. Set context.
* Show that you understand the different ways in which an engineer can be unblocked.
* Be granular if needed; technical implementation can get tricky so using detail in your examples could help.

---
