# How would you explain concepts like polymorphism and inheritance to a computer science student?

## Overview
Interviewers ask this question to assess your ability to explain technical concepts.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I’m going to assume I’m explaining these concepts to someone with working knowledge of them, so I’ll use an example to drive home how they can be applied.

Inheritance lets us inherit attributes and methods from another class. Polymorphism uses those methods to perform different tasks. This allows us to perform a single action in different ways.

For example, think of a superclass called Season that has a method called areDaysHot() which prints out “It depends on the day”. Subclasses of Season could be Summer, Winter, Fall - And they also have their own implementation of areDaysHot() (to reflect that summers have hot days, winters have cold days and fall days are a mix.)

Now, we need to use the Season class and create objects for the sorts of days we see depending on the season. As an example, we can create a Summer object and call the areDaysHot() method which prints out “The Days are hot”.

```
Season mySeason = new Season();
Season midJune = new Summer();
```

This is polymorphism in action. The same method - areDaysHot(), in this case - produces different output depending on which object is used to call it. So, mySeason uses the parent class version of areDaysHot(), while midJune uses the inherited version and therefore produces different output. The output will be as follows:

```mySeason.areDaysHot()``` produces “It depends on the day”, while ```midJune.areDaysHot()``` produces “The days are hot”.

Additionally, I mentioned earlier about Fall. Since the days are often a mix of hot and cold, you could just define a class Fall extends Season without a areDaysHot() function, in which case an object defined for the Fall class will invoke the parent class function.

So, as you can see, we have reused a core capability and repurposed to a different, more derivative use case. This is a great way to keep your code manageable and more intelligent.

Does that help explain these concepts or would you like me to elaborate on anything specific?

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate explicitly called out what the intended audience was.
* The candidate shared a relatable example to demonstrate understanding of the concepts.
* The candidate asked if the interviewer had any questions, which is always a good thing since it allows them to course correct.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Ask questions.** Whether you are explaining this to someone starting out (a student, for example) or a senior collaborator (where you are focused on implementation rather than conceptual detail) will make a big difference in how you approach this. Ask questions so that you can provide an informed answer. In the absence of clear information, feel free to make assumptions and call them out clearly.

**Use examples.** Illuminate the concept by applying it to a specific example.

**Ask for feedback.** It is often easy to get engrossed in technical concepts and lose sight of the needs of the other person who depends on you. Keep your eyes on the customer.

## Tips

* For coding interviews, depending on the level, you need to make sure you understand the concepts clearly enough to be able to explain and implement them.
* You need to align with your interviewer before you start answering on whether they need hands-on coding or a high-level workflow diagram.
* Think out loud so that your interviewer knows how you are progressing and building your solution.

---
