# How would you explain a web service infrastructure to a technical audience with a software background but limited system-level knowledge?

## Overview
This question will help assess how you will relate to individuals with a diverse range of technical depth. The interviewer is looking for technical judgment mixed with human relationship-building skills.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

The web service architecture consists of several key components, and we will incrementally demystify it by way of several concepts that will serve as building blocks.

A web server is a piece of hardware that responds to a user request with data. It could be as simple as loading static files from a computer.

A database—known in technical lingo as the “persistence layer”—is a resource for the web server to persist, or store, data. Even though these two technologies work together, they sit on separate computers so as to not compete for resources.

* From an instrumentation standpoint, you will want to make changes to the database by inserting data into it and reading data from it. This is where you’d use SQL. SQL covers the gamut from data transfer to creating databases to setting permissions. You can use SQL in MySQL, SQL Server, etc.
* From an operational standpoint, the front-end, which could be a browser, makes a request for information to the back-end, which is the web server. For example: This is a simplistic version of what happens when you search for “cat food” from Amazon and a bunch of options show up.

Since so much of our web architecture depends on data storage, it helps to understand your options vis-à-vis databases.

* If you plan on using data arranged in neat categories —think key-value pairs or tables —then you want to use relational databases (RDBMS) like MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft Access. The data in RDBMS is stored in database objects called tables. A table is a collection of related data entries and it consists of columns and rows.
* Databases like Cassandra and MongoDB are great for unstructured data in which case performance would be a predominant concern. It's especially great when the data structure is going to evolve over time, as its schema-less operations allow you to update the data on the fly.

The backend, which is the web server, then calls the database to get data, and possibly run some logic on that data and return the output to the user.

* Some context here: since we are discussing data transfers, I’ll provide a quick overview of HTTP. HTTP is a protocol which allows the fetching of information, such as HTML documents. It enables data exchange on the Web and it’s a client-server protocol, which, as I indicated, means requests are initiated by the recipient, usually the Web browser.
* Clients and servers communicate by exchanging individual messages. The messages sent by the client are called requests and the messages sent by the server as an answer are called responses.

So, to summarize, a web service architecture involves the client (i.e. the user seeking the information) and the server (which has the information), and the server consists of the webserver and database.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It set context for how the web service architecture will be described.
* It explained how concepts like web servers and databases connected together as part of the larger web service architecture.
* It associated these concepts with a real world example.
* It tied the whole idea together as a narrative in the end.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Set context and terminology.** The question already establishes that your target listener does not have a system architecture background. Starting out with gradual conceptual explanations will help them understand it better.

**Create a journey.** Rather than throwing around technical jargon, explain these concepts from the point of view of how they deliver functionality. This will help solidify the concepts.

**Tie it all together.** In the end, summarize what you’ve learned to make sure that all the concepts come together.

## Tips

* You need to know how the client-server model works for system architecture questions.
* You need to be able to explain trade-offs on how to design the backend.

---
