# What would you do if asked to take on a problem where you did not have the technical skills?

## Overview
This question will help assess how you will handle the “skill gap” engineers are often confronted with.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Unless there is an explicit set of constraints, I will assume that the task at hand is to implement a web-based capability. And the skill gap in question is that of language—more specifically, the language used in the company being one I am not terribly conversant in.

Does this assumption work as a starting point before I dive in?

I would examine the difference in the two languages; the scope of the project; the timelines; how much old code I could build on; and whether the work rests solely on me or whether I can tag-team with others.

Based on all my findings, I would create a technical spec and system design that would contain assumptions and call out technical decisions. I would have a peer or senior leader validate my assumptions just in case my technical gaps have led me astray.

As I move forward, I’d check in every week or two to make sure I am executing as expected and then become more independent. I’d be sure to align with experts in the new language so as to build my knowledge and expertise in the context of the intended outcome.

Throughout the process, I would focus on the end result and what skills would take me—and the work itself—toward that end goal. That way, I will grow my skills in a way that maximises my impact as well as collective success. That will enable me to leverage available resources in the team as well to close my gap.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It pointed out an assumption and paused to allow the interviewer to interject and provide further guidance.
* It called out all the variables that will drive decisions.
* It anchored the strategy on the needs to stick to the outcome rather than just building expertise.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Ask questions and call out assumptions.** The ideal way to start an answer would be to either ask clarifying questions around the nature of the task or to make assumptions and call them out.

**Explain trade offs.** When confronted with a skill gap, there is a tradeoff to making different choices. You will want to call these out so that you can present your decisions as being thoughtful.

**Validate your approach.** Build inflection points into your answer as well as a closing. Then you can see if your decision is working, which can ensure the success of your team.

## Tips

* Keep examples handy of where there was a skill gap and how you handled it.
* Be ready for follow-up questions where the interviewer challenges your assumptions or conclusions.
* Be prepared for questions on how you would have reacted if your approach had failed.

---
