# Tell me about the most challenging technical problem you have solved?

## Overview
This question will help assess how you judge difficulty/complexity, your approach to it, and how you improvise and execute.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

A challenging problem arose when I was one of the leaders of a cross-functional team. We had to migrate our infrastructure from on-premise to AWS cloud.

There were several reasons why this initiative was important for our company’s success.

First, our front-end and back-end setup made it increasingly difficult for us to develop and deploy at scale with the costs of onsite IT - and with limited redundancy to boot.

We also used data centers with a hardware-based load balancer and LINUX hosts running a standard configuration of Apache reverse proxy and Tomcat, and with one application called JavaStore.

JavaStore contained all the code that anyone would ever interact with as an internal stakeholder or external customer. It was connected directly to an Oracle DB using JDBC and to other Oracle databases with links.
Then, to make the challenge even more complex, we had two single-point-of-failure vulnerabilities.

The first was that, since everyone was contributing to the monolithic JavaStore code base, it was very hard to make changes to it. And rather than CI/CD, even minor UI changes required weeks of iteration.

The second was that since debugging was equally time-intensive, and tracking down simple memory leaks required several teams to abandon their work and firefight. Similarly, the database was also monolithic, and when this went down everything went down, so we had to vertically scale each time we hit a peak.

With the vulnerabilities in mind, our solution had three parts.

The first was moving to a cloud-based microservice infrastructure. I set expectations that microservices were not automatically horizontally-scaling abstractions but would depend on scalable persistence.

Our initial offering was the classic microservice infrastructure - an elastic load balancer that supported a proxy layer, which then handled dynamic routing to the gateway API. The gateway API, as the name suggested, called targeted microservices. Since we had pushback from IT around persistence, I decided to replace the monolithic DB discussed above first.

The new architecture, which was heavily influenced by Netflix’s then-groundbreaking model, involved building Java-based client libraries for data access. That meant a cache client so as to take a load off the service and DB. As a result, hits to the application were first supported by the cache which, upon failing, hit the service. The service, as expected, then called the DB and backfilled the cache.

This prevented the DB from going down when the next series of requests arrived, often only a few milliseconds later. Also, it helped us address the monolithic DB issue since we did not need to throw more hardware to prevent crashes. The C-Suite that was initially skeptical started coming around. They were tired of cutting checks to throw good hardware after bad system design.

The second part was fixing the front end, which involved several advances and retreats. Since our previous service was monolithic, we initially underestimated that calls from one service to another added vulnerabilities to our process. We had to account for network latency and the possibility that not every service was bug-free just because it was smaller. This often led to a cascading failure when a critical service failed, and we ended up with all the downsides of a monolithic architecture. We addressed this by using fault-tolerance testing for critical services.. Because of this, we had near 100% uptime for our core service that customers used to place orders. This fix helped address the single-point-of-failure issue.

The third part was to convince our leadership that we did not need to be consistent in our back-end data across all our data stores. They underestimated the time/effort involved in replicating content across availability zones. As a result, even if not all writes were read back immediately, even if one write failed, we would count it as a failure. After multiple evidence-backed demos of fail-cases, my engineering counterpart and I convinced them to support availability as a success metric over consistency.

This also aligned with the business goal of ensuring that the core retail business was always online, even if not all the merchandise was consistent across all services. In our implementation, we used Cassandra to write to one node, which then orchestrated other writes across other nodes.

You can now pull these pieces together, and I can dive into those details if you wish. But as you can see, overall we were able to meet this complex challenge and deliver a solution that kept our company moving forward.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It explained the challenge’s complexities, the evolution of the solution, and how it was an improvement on the status quo.
* It called out the skeptics, ranging from the C-Suite to IT.
* It closed by pointing out the work is not quite done and laying out a solution path.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Start with some reflection.** Think through these questions: Why was the project complex? Why was it necessary? Why did you choose to do it?

**Carve out the characters.** Every major initiative has supporters and skeptics. Engineering is about changing hearts as much as it is about changing code. Explain how, in order to lead, you mixed authority and influence.

**Tell a story in parts.** If a problem is complex, it is unlikely to have a linear path. Narrate the retreats and advances, and how you measured success and validated outcomes.

**Validate and verify.** Point out any data or verifiable examples of how you knew the project was on the right path.

## Tips

* Take your time with the explanation but don't linger on needless detail.
* Feel free to pause and ask the interviewers if they have any questions before diving deeper into the solutions.
* Challenge yourself to work on pathbreaking projects to gain experience.
* Be aware of what counts as innovative since different companies have varying levels of innovation.

---
