# Explain how you would design a ride-sharing app.

## Overview
This question will help assess your knowledge of web infrastructures and the ability to implement a widely-used functionality.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

A ridesharing service enables you to request a car to come and pick you up, so you need some ability to have real-time data move back and forth so the driver can find you and vice versa.

Right off the bat, let’s set some API design guardrails on the functionality:

* The overall architecture must have high availability and low latency.
* We must also account for the fact that the system could be read-heavy; as a driver and a rider, you spend more time looking at the app to do things like tracking your ride and getting directions rather than adding content such as requesting, accepting rides or making payments.

For this timeboxed session, I will focus on 3 aspects:

* Finding and matching drivers and riders, and matching them to each other; this is the core business.
* Maps and location, so riders and drivers can see each other on a map, determine their ETAs, and establish their trip trajectories.
* Storage, where they can persist details like trips so riders can retrieve them if needed and drivers can get paid.

I wanted to start from the third point regarding storage, since the ability to store data is the foundation to business operations as well as data analysis for future strategic investments.

Since the trip data has to be as current as possible, I’d retain it in data centers as close to the trip location as possible. This will also help with data localization and physical safety. I’d also have backups for the inevitable disaster situation. We can sync the trips eventually since we want availability over consistency.

In order to ensure we can retrieve the data quickly - remember, what we said around system guardrails at the outset - I’d go for a low latency DB like Cassandra.

On the other hand, for data analysis, you need several permutations of data against which you could run expensive queries. Latency is not as big an issue here; completeness is. This is where, for example, a Hadoop warehouse would come in.

But given the pressure on the service, I’d want to implement caching intelligently so as to use resources more prudently. 

Any questions before I jump in?

I’d warm up the caches and refresh them any time there was a miss. I’d spray my writes across availability zones for redundancy but would read locally.

In terms of caching, it would mainly be static data, like street landmarks, but would avoid caching driver locations because those refreshes would be too frequent and expensive. This is where something like REDIS would enter the picture.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It immediately defined how the service would work, the existing problem, and the parts that would be solved.
* It showed awareness of how choices would impact product usage (like data localization), and it included an explanation of trade-offs, (like availability vs. consistency).
* It explained how decisions were being made and sought feedback to make sure the interviewer was clear.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Explain the problem parameters.** Call out what you are and aren’t solving, how the user journey will work, and how you’ll optimize features unique to the service.

**Build your solution.** Break down the functionality into smaller parts and build out a solution piece by piece.

**Describe outcomes and tradeoffs.** In deep-dive interviews, it is key to tie your implementation decisions back to the capabilities you are seeking to build. Make sure you do that often and explain the technical tradeoffs.

## Tips

* Scope early and explain why.
* Lay out your choices and then justify your decisions.
* Be conversant with platforms, storage techniques and how they affect user capabilities.

---
