# Explain how you’d design Twitter and the system tradeoffs involved.

## Overview
This question will help assess your knowledge of web infrastructures and the ability to implement a widely-used functionality.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Twitter has a lot of features and activity. For the purpose of this exercise, I will focus on designing and architecting the timeline, which is the feature you use by default when you first open Twitter, where tweets from everyone you follow show up.

Let’s construct what a backend for the Twitter timeline could be like.

Every user on Twitter would have three tables.

* First, the user’s own Twitter home page. You could think of my Twitter timeline as a table with IDs of users who I follow and their tweets. For now, let’s not worry about how the tweets are ordered or which users are prioritized. We can call this the “Timeline Table.”
* Second, every tweet I have ever sent would be in a table of its own. We can call it the “Tweets table.”
* Third, I’d have a table of all the other Twitter users I follow. We will call it the “Follow table.”

With this context in mind, let’s populate the Timeline table. We can start by running a SELECT query that joins my Follow table with the Tweets table of every user I follow. This would be a very expensive query.

When you account for the fact that people are following or unfollowing others in real time and sending out tweets, this gets even more complicated. Also, when you account for the number of users on Twitter, there is no way something like this would scale.

So, in my preferred design, I will optimize for availability over consistency. Here is how I’d build the architecture:

* Once I type my Tweet and hit SEND, my tweet would hit a gateway API, via a PUT or POST call. Then, you’d have an ELB, which would route your call to a server that can support you. 
* As we keep developing our solution, let’s assume we can use the “fan out” architecture, whereby the tweet lands in an in-memory database. This would replace the Timeline table in our structured database above.
* In order to build redundancy, we’d have multiple REDIS clusters for several copies of each timeline. Just so we don’t have to keep scaling vertically and horizontally, we will only want to keep these copies for highly engaged users.
* Take edge cases into considerations. For example, if someone with millions of followers were to send a tweet, that would lead to a re-computation of those millions of followers. This would be neither scalable nor practical.

In order to address the edge cases, we need to borrow from both approaches we have looked at so far. We could leverage the REDIS approach while also inserting tweets from any applicable highly-followed users at run-time.

So, at this point we have a sound architecture that allows for availability and factors in various kinds of timeline use cases. I’m happy to dig in further if there is any specific aspect you’d like me to elaborate.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It clearly defined “how” the service works from the start without jumping into solution-mode too quickly.
* It defined the problem early on and identified the solution parameters.
* It picked and ruled out solutions and explained why, but it also showed how possible solutions would or would not work in the real world.
* It explained how specific solutions would need to be improved and suggested how to make those changes.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Set up the parameters.** While Twitter is well-known, it would be impossible to fully architect such a complex system in an interview. It is recommended that you pick one of Twitter’s key capabilities to articulate its technical considerations and implementation/ design details.

**Build your solution and explain.** Break down the functionality into smaller parts and build out a solution gradually. As you rule out or rule in possible solutions, explain why you are doing so.

**Describe outcomes and tradeoffs.** As with other deep-dive interviews, it is important to tie your implementation decisions back to the capabilities you are seeking to build. Do this often and explain the technical tradeoffs.

## Tips

* Scope early and explain why.
* Lay out your choices and then justify your decisions.
* Be conversant with platforms, storage techniques and how they affect user capabilities.

---
