# Tell me about a time you disagreed with a fellow engineer and how that issue was resolved.

## Overview
This question will help assess what it is like to work with you, especially in the context of difficult situations.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

This happened a year ago. I disagreed around the scope of a major system redesign with a new engineer, who was junior to me. 

Every few years, our company would redesign our customer-facing login experience. This was a chance to add new features, make it compatible with new devices and broaden our reach.

I was the project lead, and having paid my dues fixing smaller components of previous designs, this was my chance to own the end-to-end architecture of the system as a whole.

My partner was a brand new engineer. He had graduated from Carnegie Mellon just months before. I had taken him under my wing since I admired his intelligence and pluck as well as the fact that he had succeeded in an area where I had not.

I helped him ramp up, and we then started tackling the system design. We immediately had a different strategic view.

I wanted to fix as many bugs as possible and then add new features. Jake, on the other hand, did market research that showed that we could entice new customers and juice up revenue by adding new features. In his mind, the bugs were benign and, by now in the minds of our customers, had settled in as quirks, so there was no need to chase after them as our competitors lapped us.

During one scoping session, he made a remark that engineers like me are often too tied to the old system they built. I countered that people who have never built a system often underestimate the tradeoffs around maintenance and innovation.

We needed to improve the app, but what would be better was to see what the best mix was. What features could we add that could fix the maximum bugs, and what bugs could we fix that would bring new features along with them?

So, we went back and did our homework. Jake took the first task, while I took the second.

Our combined research led to a clearly defined MVP that improved the product stability as well as added key new capabilities.

Our new product design won rave reviews, and both Jake and I developed a new respect for each other.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate thoroughly explained the situation, the problem and the relationship between the two players.
* The candidate called out the contrast between the two choices.
* The candidate used language to indicate that a key juncture in the conversation was coming, which allowed the interviewer to process the information.
* The candidate explained growing as an individual and as a leader—from being the idealistic engineer to someone responsible for progress, and from being a mentor to treating Jake as a stakeholder.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Set context.** Introduce the problem objectively despite the temptation to start with your own point of view. You want the interviewer to understand the issue and then work your way forward.

**Explain how it began and evolved.** Having set the stage, explain the disagreement and how it started and developed into a clear contrast.

**Describe how it ended.** It is vital to bring closure on the issue and explain your part in the resolution.

## Tips

* Explain the issue clearly before jumping into the details.
* Think of these answers as episodic: what was needed, what were the choices, why was there a disagreement, and how was it resolved. Having a clear structure helps the interviewer keep track.
* Explain what you learned from this episode and how it helped you and the team.

---
