# Tell me about a time when insights about the industry or customers impacted your technical execution.

## Overview
This question will help assess your ability to listen, solicit feedback and improvise based on new information.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I worked for a company that built GPS systems for farmers. They used our systems to chart out their field maps and spray fertilizer on their fields from small planes. This allowed them to mix the fertilizer with other chemicals that would improve soil health and protect plants from insects.

During our periodic redesign, I was of the opinion that we could add more options to our menu. That way, our tools would be more differentiated and frankly, I’d look like a leader with fresh ideas.

One of our reps suggested bringing an engineer along on a sales trip in case the customers had any questions. I figured it would be a great chance to learn how our product gets used in real life, so I tagged along. 

The trip to the Midwest was illuminating. I was able to interact with people outside of the typical West Coast tech crowd and product engineers.

During the customer interaction, I showed the farmers all the amazing features and the environmentally friendly LED.

They seemed unimpressed.

The farmers told us that it was unhelpful to have new features overcomplicate the display. Using so many buttons while flying a plane was very difficult since it took their eyes off the field and put them at risk.

I felt like all my hard work had gone to waste. And just then, from the back, someone said that it would be nice if these features were available without having to press a button.

They would prefer if we used voice-recognition.

And just like that, we figured out a way to make our product even more marketable. We could design two different SKUs: one with buttons and the other with voice commands. By giving customers different choices, we could capture a wider market.

This product improvement would not have been possible had I not listened to the customer and incorporated their feedback.

That insight has stayed with me to this day. Now that I’m more senior, I am striving harder to engineer products that are more accessible and inclusive.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It started with a humanizing touch, which showed sincerity.
* It explained the product in terms of customer needs.
* It showed empathy by recognizing that customers may have different perspectives that need to be considered.
* It closed with an eye towards inclusivity and using this experience as a lesson to show maturity and humanity.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Set context.** Introduce the status quo and your role in it. You’ll need to set this context to explain why listening to customer feedback was so important.

**Describe the feedback.** The external feedback would have to be important enough to merit consideration, so you should explain that part clearly.

**Tell them how it ended.** How you handled the feedback, processed it and incorporated it into meaningful next steps is the meat of the answer. You should also discuss how you then acted on it.

## Tips

* Set context - explain the problem and what your initial approach was.
* Come up with an example where you can demonstrate how the insights you got from the experience were different from what you had expected.
* Call out clearly what you did that would not have been possible were it not for the feedback.

---
