# Tell me about a time you had to push back on an unreasonable request from an executive or customer.

## Overview
This question will help assess your ability to process feedback and hold your ground as needed.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I was the tech lead at a digital tech firm and we would design interactive experiences for bigger companies.

One such project involved creating an activity dashboard for the users of a retail company by leveraging their Facebook data with permission. The dashboard would contain information such as their top friends or their most visible social posts. It was a great way to drive social engagement and make the brand hip in the eyes of the tech-savvy younger demo.

We learned how to use the Facebook APIs - and this was during the early days of Facebook when documentation was sparse. We figured out how to get the data from Facebook by understanding how their API rate-limiting worked and how the data schemas were set up.

After weeks of coding, testing and working with the design team, we had a prototype ready.

And then, the customer asked us to do the exact same thing with Twitter.

At the time, Twitter was too new and did not have diverse enough data to justify the effort. This would require significant changes to our backend data processing that we could not implement without delays and going over-budget. I was almost certain that all the API calls would slow down the experience and we’d lose the impatient younger clientele our customer was hoping to entice.

I felt that if we allied with the client’s IT team, we may have success making the case for delaying this additional request for v2. This additional request probably came from someone who did not have the technical background, and if the client heard it from an insider, they may be more likely to come around.

Sure enough, when the client heard this assessment as a team effort from both engineering teams, they understood and accepted that the new request would need to come in as a phase 2 effort.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* It set the stage by explaining the problem, the stakeholders and the context of the work - which otherwise would not be intuitive for the interviewers.
* It cleverly highlighted how the work was innovative.
* It told a story about pushing back, building alliances, and ultimately resolving the problem.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Set context.** Introduce the situation, the status quo and what your role was in it.

**Get into specific detail.** It is critical to explain what the request was and why it was problematic. The danger for candidates is that they know these details so intimately that they may skip over them and fail to bring the interviewer along.

**Describe how it ended.** How you handled the feedback, processed it and incorporated it into meaningful next steps is the meat of the answer. You should also discuss how you then acted on it.

## Tips

* Set context; explain the problem and what your initial approach was.
* Come up with an example where you can demonstrate a request that, while understandable, was not practical.
* Make sure you can justify why pushing back was essential based on facts rather than gut feeling.

---
