# What do you think an ideal product-engineering relationship should look like?

## Overview
This question will help assess your ability to work with a key engineering partner.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Product management and engineering are like pieces of a puzzle; incomplete without each other. But often it takes a bit of an effort to see how they best fit together.

Product management sets the parameters of the innovation: what we are building, why we are building it, who we are building it for, and how we would measure its success.

Engineering has to provide the “how”: the instrumentation, the personification of the design, the logistics around the building, and the iterations in which smaller chunks can validate the progress towards the whole.

Ideally, you want a relationship where product management is in close contact with the end-users and brings that perspective to the engineer—with enough technical judgment to understand what is doable.

Engineering should be technically sound enough to execute as well as provide product management choices and feedback based on technical tools available.

On an ongoing basis, the two arms of the team should work together to validate progress, rule things in or out and measure outcomes against goals and the larger product vision.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate used an analogy to bring the ideas to life, demonstrating the ability to explain complex concepts in a simple manner.
* The candidate explained the optimum scenario where the two roles make each other successful.
* The candidate provided an operating template by calling out how the two roles can interact on an ongoing basis.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Set context.** Explain your understanding of the product management role.

**Offer strategic insight.** Set out a “big picture” explanation on how these roles ought to fill the canvas of innovation.

**Provide tactical suggestions.** This is where you explain how the two disciplines work together on a more tactical basis.

## Tips

* Call out clearly how various roles in tech differ.
* In your career, venture out of your silo to understand how different teams operate.
* Look for opportunities to shadow other teams so you can empathize with their work and be able to articulate it in an interview.

---
