# How do you measure success in an engineering project?

## Overview
This question will help assess your ability to work towards outcomes and adhere to missions and goals.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

Measuring success for tech products is complex - not because it is impossible, but because there are so many different approaches tailored to different scenarios and audiences. The key is to choose a mission, and let that mission drive the product’s strategic and tactical success metrics.

Let’s assume that we are talking about a product like LinkedIn groups.

LinkedIn’s mission can be thought of as driving engagement between and among employers and workers to ensure as many matches as possible, which leads to a growing and dynamic economy and workplace.

To that end, the success of LinkedIn groups can be strategically measured in terms of:

* The number of groups and their growth rate
* Quality of engagement, which are things like how long people stay in groups and how often they return.

More tactically, I’d look at things such as:

* The number of members per group and their growth rate
* The number of posts on things like jobs, shares, and invites

And finally, I'd also look for things like if people who get jobs through the Groups feature are coming back to post jobs, and if they are referring their friends to those groups.

The purpose of these groups is to grow engagement and employment and then have that growth flow back to the groups themselves.

As I build technical features, I would look to see how my architectures and features drive such numbers and innovate accordingly.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate sets the stage for why measuring success can be challenging, and then makes the case that success is driven by the mission and data.
* The differentiation between strategic and tactical metrics was a good touch as were the examples.
* It smartly tied in future engineering decisions to specific growth metrics, showing a customer orientation that is critical.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Pick a product and tie it to a mission.** Just as you need to design a system before coding it, you will want to identify your goals before defining success.

**Define success.** Explain what a good outcome looks like and how it may vary on a case-by-case basis.

**Demonstrate metrics and/or evidence.** Show how you will validate and evolve your success measurements with time.

## Tips

* Make sure you build products to achieve a goal rather than just as a technical exercise.
* Measure on an ongoing basis because routine measurements and continual improvements are key to innovation.
* Demonstrate how you would make different technical decisions when data dictates it. This proves that these measurements make a difference.

---
