# What is the mix of technical and management qualities you look for in engineering leaders and managers?

## Overview
This question will help assess your ability to work with different types of leaders who have some degree of authority over you.

## Candidate answer and feedback
> By Software Engineer Professional

I think of a manager as a multi-dimensional leader. A manager would be part coach part mentor.

As a mentor, a manager would help guide me and build my skills. As a coach, their responsibility would be to extract the best out of me while also holding me accountable. So, I’d expect a combination of both incarnations.

This relationship would vary depending on the company, the work culture, how thinly spread the manager is, the stage of the project, and the uniqueness of a specific situation.. This is where honest and transparent communication, which is the foundation of a trust-based relationship, comes into the picture.

To that end, it is my own responsibility to ask for help early, set clear expectations, communicate crisply and make sure I keep my manager in the loop at all times. This is critical since I may have more brass-tacks awareness than my manager, but my manager may be more organizationally connected than I could be.

That way, the relationship is mutually beneficial.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate used a relatable analogy to explain the manager’s role.
* The candidate emphasized the need for communication so as to avoid characterizing the relationship as a one-way dependency.
* The candidate smartly explained how someone and their manager could use each other as force multipliers.

## Answer framework
Here are some tips on answering this question:

**Describe how you see the role.** Different engineers have a variety of expectations from their managers. There is no one-size-fits-all answer here, so provide some context based on your experience.

**Define how the relationship may vary.** Managers may need to offer different kinds of support depending on the circumstances, so calling that out is helpful as well.

**Explain your own responsibility.** Authority is not a one-way street. You should also explain how you can empower managers to support you and the team’s mission.

## Tips

* For questions such as these, think about all your managers and their strengths and weaknesses as you define an ideal relationship.
* Do NOT use this question to gripe about bad managers. Think about vision, goals and the sort of relationship with your manager that helps you achieve those.
* Show empathy but also express clear preferences. Your interviewer is looking at you through the prism of how you judge others.

---
