# What is your greatest weakness?

## Overview
The interviewer is assessing whether your weaknesses will get in the way of doing the job. Employers are looking for humility and whether you’re committed to learning and growing. This is a place you can showcase what you’re doing to improve.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Gene F., Hiring Manager

I get excited when people on my team brainstorm about big new ideas. I sometimes get so caught up in the moment that I volunteer to do too much. I know this can be a distraction in ways that put me at risk of not getting work done properly or missing deadlines.

I've been reflecting on why this happens. As I've become more conscious of this pattern, I'm working on ways to contain the negative aspects of my eagerness.

One way that I do this is to still go to brainstorming meetings but to be more careful about offering to do the next steps—or limit it to one project that my boss supports.

Fortunately, though, the job we're discussing seems well-suited for people like me, people that bring a lot of enthusiasm to the job and are ready to keep getting better and better at the follow-through.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* He shared a story about how a weakness would negatively impact his work and stress him out.
* He turned his self-awareness into a plan to help him manage that weakness so he would be successful in the future.
* He shared specific details, which made the story feel relatable.

### Sample answer 2
> By Marketing & Brand Manager Professional

In my current role as a product manager, I’m responsible for specific feature building. So, I work with a lot of cross-functional teams like engineers and designers.

I think one thing that I can always improve on is patience, taking time to really see and understand other people’s perspectives — especially considering we are always rushing to meet tight deadlines. I always want things to move quickly and precisely, which I’ve realized can make my partners a bit anxious.

To help with this, I’m working to help build trust. I’ve been scheduling more frequent check-ins with the teams to make sure that everyone is comfortable with the project timeline. And I’ve made myself more open so that they can share any missed opportunities that they see as we go. This gives us a chance to get out ahead of things and make sure we’re all totally aligned even as we work fast.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer was honest and demonstrated an understanding of how this weakness can affect team members.
* A clear improvement strategy was outlined.

### Sample answer 3
> By Mechanical Engineer Professional

I have a strong desire to succeed, which generally serves me well. But I’ve realized that it can also be a blind spot if I’m not being honest with myself about what’s possible.

A few years ago, I was working on a remote control, and the schedule was very tight. We were trying to go from concept to mass production in six months, and there was a high amount of pressure.

I made the decision to continue with the factory build, even though my team was concerned that one of the parts we were using would fail. Because we had already spent $200,000 on the factory process, I pushed ahead. I was afraid to tell the program managers that we wouldn’t be able to hit our targets. Eventually, I was forced to — but I had already lost the company money.

What I learned from this is the importance of being honest right up front and being realistic, even if it’s not the outcome I want. I’ve learned that failures can be turned around more easily when addressed quickly.

Now I communicate status with program managers on a weekly basis. I always make them aware of the risks and what the impact might be. In the past four years, we haven't missed a single delivery.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer provided an honest self-review with a clear example that took the interviewer through the decision-making process.
* The candidate took accountability and specific steps to prevent another issue.

### Sample answer 4
> By Marketing & Brand Manager Professional

I have worked on my inclination to hold back on giving tough feedback.

A few roles ago, I’d just been promoted to management and joined a project that my boss was leading. The work was about 30% baked when I joined, and I knew right away that it wasn’t strong. I spoke up, but not strongly enough. The agency was pushing their work hard, and I decided not to rock the boat.

Unfortunately, as the project progressed, I noticed more and more issues. And as I feared, the campaign bombed.

Even though I hadn’t kicked off the project, I was a part of the team, and I owned a big piece of the failure for not sticking to my guns. I learned on that day that even if people don’t agree with you — even if the boss doesn’t agree with you — you owe it to the team and company to vocalize concerns. I’ve taken that lesson a step further by creating the kind of space on my teams for people to dissent, to push back, and to disagree. I firmly believe that successful teams are built on a foundation of respectful, honest communication.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed a willingness to accept responsibility for failure.
* A clear pivot showed how this weakness was turned into an improvement for teams.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Gene F., Hiring Manager

This can feel like a tricky question, but it’s a good opportunity to shine. Here are some tips on how to answer:

**Be humble.** You want to communicate an authentic story that shows you're self-aware. It's okay that you don't come off as perfect, that's authentic, which is important for someone who will have to trust you in the role that they're hiring for.

**Choose a trait that is not too relevant to the job.** For example, if you're applying for a project manager role, choose a weakness that is more related to creativity, which is something that doesn't disqualify you from the description of the things that would make someone successful in that role

**Show how you manage it.** Have a fix-it strategy. For example, if you struggle with remembering product details so you track them in their phone or side notebook, that's okay, share that with them. That shows that you've got commitment to solving that problem and addressing it.

## Tips

* Employers are looking for self-awareness and personal accountability.
* It’s good to be honest about what you’re not great at.
* Share what you are doing to actively improve on this weakness.

---
