# Why do you want to work here?

## Overview
Interviewers want to understand what prompted you to apply for this job. They don’t want candidates who are indifferent to where they work. Instead, they want someone who offers very specific reasons for why they want this job.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

The first thing that prompted me to apply is your commitment to service. I've been a customer for five years since I first bought a house. We had a big storm that damaged my roof last year, and I was impressed by how caring and prompt your customer service representatives were as I worked through it.

I'm also excited about your upcoming merger. I can see how this is going to set you apart in the insurance industry. I'd love to help you through the process of integrating the two companies. Having supported a merger three years ago, I know what an intricate and stressful process that can be. I have a few specific ideas on how I might ease the transition.

Lastly, I applied because I see this as an opportunity for me to broaden my financial services experience. This seems to be a natural fit based on my understanding of regulated industries.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* He has done his homework and sees an opportunity to help this company through a challenging and exciting transition.
* He made it about them first and then wove in some of his own personal career goals.

### Sample answer 2
> By Brand Marketing Manager Professional

I grew up in a household that only used your products. Even when we faced tremendous financial difficulty, my mother would always buy razors manufactured by your company – that’s when you realize the role you play in the lives of your consumer is much more than cleaning. You make life a little bit easier, allowing people the time, space and energy to live life at its fullest.

When my father immigrated to the U.S from India, I was 6 years old. I don’t remember much – all I remember is that my dad packed 2 suitcases, a box of his mother’s favorite sweets and your company’s personal care products. That’s how important the product is to him and it’s the only razor he has ever used and it’s the only razor I have ever used. I want to work for a brand like that – and I want to bring my father to this office and see the factory where his product is made, first-hand.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer showed that the candidate is deeply invested in the brand, creating an emotional connection to the company's vision.
* The personal story showed a real connection to the brand, and genuine enthusiasm for the job.

### Sample answer 3
> By Pricing Strategy Manager Professional

I have spoken to people who worked here previously and I was always highly impressed on how highly they spoke about the company and how well they developed themselves.

I admire your mentor program and have always believed that mentorship is key to a company’s success and an individual’s personal and professional growth. I see this opportunity as a way to contribute to an exciting fast growth company with such a potential with my skills well-suited to add value to the company’s growth.

Within the last three years, for example, I set the goal of growing and evolving my team. I was able to coach and promote three different partnership employees into new roles. I was also able to optimize pricing and promotions, which saved the company money and resources and exceeded revenue projections three years in a row.

My track record of outperforming expectations and ability lead will help accelerate the fascinating growth you are seeing.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer highlighted a deep knowledge of the company.
* An interest in mentorship shows that the candidate wants to invest both time with the company, and energy in team members.
* Leadership success was easily quantified through the promotions of direct reports.

#### Sample answer 4
> By Data Engineering Analyst Professional

I understand that you’re looking for a leader who can implement and scale your data analytics platform.

Over the course of my career, I have implemented data analytics platforms for 3 companies. Each had its own unique challenges and required me to learn, grow, and expand my skill set. I’m energized by new and complex challenges, and have the background, experience, and successful track record required to implement this system within your organization.

The space in which your company operates is also of personal interest to me and I would love to contribute to it and help the company grow. When I started at my current company, I had a team of 4 people which I scaled to 28 people. I led the team in designing and building a big data platform for this big global company. Ultimately, we expanded the user base from 100 to 1,200.

I’m looking forward to the next chapter and challenge, and believe I can bring real value to this organization.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer detailed experience in helping growing organizations scale.
* It was clear that the candidate had personal interest in the company.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

You would be amazed by how few people get this question right. So you've got a big opportunity to shine.

**Make it all about them.** Your best answer will be about what they need. It'll show that you've done your research and have thought through what you can contribute to that team.

**Show them how you can help.** Weave your story into the context of what you can contribute. If you have strong accounting skills and are interviewing for a finance role at a humane society, you could suggest that this job would allow you to blend your professional skills with your passion for animals.

**Speak from the heart.** Telling a genuine story can make a big difference. For example, I once worked with a client who was applying for a zoo event manager job and she had grown up next door to that zoo and had great memories of the peacocks flying over the fence and sitting on her dad's car. So her answer was that she wanted people to have fun memories of that zoo just like she did. Try to top that.

## Tips

* Make it about them first.
* Show you’ve done your research.
* Use this as a key opportunity to outshine the competition.
* Speak from the heart.

---
