# Tell me about a time you showed leadership.

## Overview
Employers want to understand your capacity to step up and handle tough situations that undoubtedly arise in the workplace. They want to know when you’ve seen an opening to lean in and lead with good judgment.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Recently there was a situation where my manager needed to take medical leave and was unable to come into work for a few weeks. This coincided with a major deadline that he was leading. I knew that if this project wasn't completed on time, we were at risk of losing a major client.

I looked to my right and my left, and there wasn't anyone else who could own the project, so I jumped in with both feet and took the initiative.

I went through the files and developed a schedule detailing what needed to be completed, and I worked with my coworkers to ensure they were on board too.

In the end, we were able to complete the project by the deadline. The client was pleased and stayed on as a loyal customer to the company. When my boss came back, he gave me an end-of-quarter bonus because he was impressed I was able to rally everyone to complete the project.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She shared details that make it easy to visualize what was happening.
* She described how she got her coworkers onboard and met the deadline to keep her loyal client.

### Sample answer 2
> By Hardware Engineer Professional

I was working on a high visibility project and during production, two members on my cross-functional team had different approaches to a problem that we were facing. They both wanted credit for being right, and we were at a stalemate. To move forward, I needed to help align the team.

I wasn’t their reporting manager but I was the project lead, so I asked them to explain the pros and cons of their approach. I encouraged them to fairly assess their solutions and moderated the discussion so that it stayed productive and respectful.

As they laid out their plans, it became clear that a hybrid approach would be best for the company. I encouraged them to see this as a team win towards a common goal that would reflect positively on everyone.

Using the hybrid approach, we not only delivered a superior solution, but completed the project 2 weeks ahead of schedule because the team was so motivated.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer highlighted both communication and moderation skills.
* Beyond the success of achieving consensus, the candidate improved the project timeline.

### Sample answer 3
> By Product Marketing Research Professional

During a recent project, I was responsible for helping to improve the margins of an existing product line used by multiple customer segments. The product had multiple elements of design, manufacturing, and software support. Leadership had been eyeing cost-cutting efforts for some time.

My first step was to clearly understand the situation and how the product had become less profitable. So, I sat down with the design, sales, marketing, and operations teams to document all perspectives.

In parallel, I met with the finance team to clearly understand areas of potential savings. In the end, I identified 3 clear steps: streamline processes around assembly and testing, make small design tweaks to remove unnecessary features, and simplify the product overall.

Making this proposal required talking to each team individually, armed with financial data that could convince them that this effort was worthwhile. The data had to make sense and projections needed to be realistic. I also needed to leverage my technical background to understand nuances in the design and assembly.

Ultimately, the effort saved the company more than $5M over the next two years, and helped set the precedent for efficient and lean product development.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer set the stage and detailed each action step.
* The candidate’s approach showed a holistic view of the challenge and deep understanding of the business.
* Leadership skills were proven by significant, quantifiable results.

### Sample answer 4
> By Data Engineering Analyst Professional

A few years ago, I took over the Web Operations team of a major company. This was a new area for me and when I stepped into the role, I immediately identified a clear need to completely rebuild 35 worldwide websites across eight different languages.

I created a plan for the rebuild which included hiring additional technical writers, securing media agencies, acquiring new software, and more.

This plan was meant to be enacted over 18 months but after I presented my plan to executive management, the CEO requested that we complete the project before the end of the year.

This gave us just 12 months, which meant we had to rethink our project plan. The readjustment required the addition of even more resources and distributing the translation work to different teams — all while managing risk carefully. I am happy to say that after 12 months, the project was completed successfully, and team morale remained high throughout the process.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated their ability to identify opportunity areas.
* The solution required a blend of soft and technical skills and the ability to lead cross-functional teams.
* The example also highlighted the ability to adjust a plan to meet aggressive deadlines.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Describe a situation where there was a lack of leadership.
* Use the word “lead” to help describe the actions you took.
* Give credit to your ‘leadership skills’ when explaining the positive results.

---
