# Tell me about a time you were successful on a team.

## Overview
If you can show that you’ve helped a team move through a challenge, you probably have strong communication and interpersonal skills. These kinds of “soft” skills are in high demand and make people successful in their jobs.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

I was asked to work on a high-profile project that included collaborating with a new team and tons of people across a larger organization.

We were spread out across the globe, which meant timezones were tricky and we could never meet face-to-face. Communication was starting to get confusing, and people were losing important details.

It became apparent that this project was going to fail if we didn’t have a new strategy, so I met with various team members and engaged them in a process where we designed and implemented a communication system that would work a lot better.

We then did weekly check-ins; designed a protocol to share relevant updates so we’d stay on track; developed a detailed outline of goals and milestones; and led the meetings.

In the end, the team made massive progress. We completed the project on time, and it was praised extensively by the client. The team thanked me for helping to course-correct. We also continue to use these tools, and they are what make our team so much more efficient at what we do.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She started off discussing a specific situation and the issues involved with having to work on a global team.
* She talked about the specific action steps she took like implementing a new work process.
* She described the positive results and teamwork skills she demonstrated along the way.

### Sample answer 2
> By Program Manager Professional

While working for a major airline, I was on a team that was tasked to jointly determine the growth plans for a joint venture we operated in partnership with two other airlines. Naturally, the team was made up of individuals based around the world, each with very different views on the economic and competitive landscape. At first, our plans clashed significantly.

One challenge we were trying to solve in our term sheet was how to adjust our plans during times of economic uncertainty. Each team had a different idea for what actions to take, and when. To help reach alignment I proposed that we look at real historic examples of economic downturns, bankruptcies, volcanic eruptions, and similar events — and use them as case examples to set a range of appropriate reactions. Then, we’d tie these reactions to indicators, such as global passenger volume, GDP growth, and stock market indicators — all universally understood and applicable.

Once we established this framework for using hard data to guide acceptable strategic actions, the team was able to collaborate with more trust and a common language. Our analysis was unified and based on the same inputs, and this allowed us to quickly and successfully align on a term sheet for the joint venture.

Why this answer worked well:

* The candidate showcased their ability to align stakeholders with very divergent points of view.
* The answer included strategic thinking skills and personal initiative.

### Sample answer 3
> By Product Manager Professional

I joined a team 6 months after the MVP launch which was moderately successful, but short of management expectations. Without a real roadmap, the team was just running small experiments to drive incremental gains.

I quickly realized that we’d need to do more than that to realize the long-term vision of the product. To gain the trust of my new team, I focused on what could be improved in the immediate future. I helped rationalize the short-term experiment roadmap, organized execution, removed roadblocks, and helped ship few of the high potential experiments.

Concurrently, I spent time with the executive team to understand their expectations. After observing users and analyzing our logs, I partnered with team leads across Engineering, Design, and Research to develop an updated mission statement and a set of defined success metrics.

Within 3 months, we were charging full-speed ahead with an updated roadmap, improvement operational metrics, and significant boost on a platform satisfaction survey. Two years later, the product had been used by hundreds of millions of people every month — 40 times the amount we started with.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated their ability to identify areas of opportunity, backed up by quantifiable results.
* The answer included important soft skills like collaboration and team-building.

### Sample answer 4
> By Enterprise Program Manager Professional

As part of the developing a product roadmap for a CRM product line, I’m proud to have uncovered an unmet need during a user empathy session. One of the pain points that kept coming up was around the end customers spending too much time and effort in creating nested workflows for their activity-based marketing campaigns.

I Identified a way to do a rapid prototype of a ‘workflow’ module using natural language that can be invoked based on voice commands and keywords to create complex workflows. I demonstrated the idea and prototype to leadership to obtain support, then met with one of the key engineering leads to develop a timetable to develop this concept without risking the other features on the roadmap.

In 2016, we filed a new patent in natural language processing. This capability can be a ‘plug-in’ module to several first party and third party software products that are focused on business process automation and workflows — which has generated a steady stream of licensing revenue to date.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate highlighted their ability to discover opportunities and innovate new solutions.
* The success of the patent was a win for both customers and the company.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Describe a problem that arose with a team.
* Outline your key actions with the team.
* Explain the positive result based on the work you did.
* Give credit to your teamwork skills.

---
