# What would your co-workers say about you?

## Overview
Interviewers want to know if you’ll fit in with the team. This question can also help you highlight your strengths without feeling like you’re bragging.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

I think my coworkers would tell you that I'm the one you turn to when it's time to make sure everyone stays motivated and on track to pull off big, high-profile projects.

In one of my LinkedIn recommendations, my supervisor refers to me as the “Human Glue”, which is something I'm proud of. She gave me that nickname after we went through a complex ERP implementation. It was one of those stressful time-critical projects that required the team to come together and make things happen in a short amount of time.

I kept the crew going, sometimes through long evening and weekend hours, and inspired them to bring their absolute best to the project everyday.

I think that they also appreciated the pizza and donuts I brought in too.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* He shared something specifically related to the job.
* He pointed the interviewer to a supervisor's favorable LinkedIn recommendation.
* He shared a bit of humor.

### Sample answer 2
> By Product Manager Professional

I would expect that most coworkers would describe me as driven. When I join teams or start on projects, I spend a lot of time understanding what’s most important about the work, which is a huge motivating factor for me.

Once I lock in on what matters most, I share it with the team so we’re all invested with a common purpose. Being driven allows me to share what some have called my “infectious enthusiasm” with others and rally the team, and also means that I spend a lot of time with my work to make sure it’s done well. My teams have solid track records of hitting if not exceeding their goals because of this focus and ability to motivate.

A good example was when I was working with quite a large group, and our project was given to us top-down. This didn’t feel empowering for the team, but I worked with leadership and our user research team to help the engineers and designers recognize the value of what we were working on.

It was slated to be a multiyear project, but because the team was motivated and we focused on creating specifications for the product, we were able to deliver a prototype in just a few months.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer painted a picture of a strong, motivating team member.
* The candidate detailed how their strength directly benefited their employer.

### Sample answer 3
> By Hardware Engineer Professional

My coworkers have told me that I am a technical leader who sets ambitious goals, reliably delivers work on time, and shows empathy to each team member.

In a recent peer review, I received great feedback for being a team player. One of my coworkers needed to take some time off to address some pressing personal issues. He wasn’t comfortable asking, as we were working on a very tight timeline and everyone had limited bandwidth — especially me. But knowing that he would be stronger in his role and that the team would be healthier if he was given space to handle outside concerns, I offered to take up his responsibilities for 3 weeks.

It was a stretch, but I knew it was temporary. I emphasized time management and prioritization to ensure that no deadlines were missed. When he returned, he was able to focus and our team was even more productive.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate utilized a blend of soft and technical skills, and the success was supported by peer review.
* The example suggests that the candidate would be a strong team player and good culture fit.

### Sample answer 4
> By Marketing & Category Insights Manager Professional

Years ago, I read a book called Seeing Yourself as Others Do. The book posits that while we are young in our careers, we can get away with being aggressive in our work style and stepping on toes to get things done.

However, as we progress, we’re inevitably tasked with more responsibilities than we could ever handle alone. At this point, it becomes imperative to have the support of those around us — whether or not they are direct reports.

I have taken this message seriously and built relationships with people all over the organization. I regularly meet with people from other departments who I don’t normally work with. Because of this strong foundation, I am comfortable picking up the phone and asking for help from a large network of colleagues. And it isn’t just one way! I regularly get calls requesting help and advice on a wide array of projects.

As such, I would expect that my coworkers would say that I’m personable, supportive, hard-working, and thoughtful. We spend more time with our co-workers than we do our own families, so it’s important to keep professional relationships strong for team morale and success.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer highlighted an interest in career growth and meaningful investment of time.
* Relationship-based examples indicate strong collaborative skills.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

This question gives you an opportunity to share how amazing you are—without feeling like you're showboating. Here are three quick tips on how to answer it:

**Find features that fit.** Re-read the job description and look for answers that go well with it. For example, if they need a strong problem solver, maybe you can share that your office nickname is “The Fixer” because you're so good at solving tough challenges.

**Share some of your reviews.** Before the interview, go through your LinkedIn recommendations and performance reviews and see if there are some gold nuggets you might want to show them. And if it's on LinkedIn, mention it to the interviewers so they can read the whole recommendation if they want more detail.

**Back it up with evidence.** If you think your colleagues would say that you're super creative, resist the urge to say “People like that I can think outside of the box”. Instead, share a tangible example of your creativity that ties to the job description.

## Tips

* Share something that relates to the job description and back it with an example.
* Look to your recommendations and reviews for ideas.
* Be confident and succinct. It’s OK to shine!.

---
