# Why do you want to leave your current role?

## Overview
Employers say they want to hire people who are running “to” a role as opposed to running “away.” However, they are also interested in your honesty when things haven’t worked out and will give people second chances when they demonstrate hunger.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Brian Rumao, Hiring Manager

I'm eager to find a new opportunity and grow.

As you can see, I've been doing the same kind of work for two and a half years, and I'm starting to stagnate. My company doesn't have a role open for the next step up, unfortunately. So, I'm excited about the opportunity of becoming a sales manager at your company.

The new role will let me use the skills I've developed in my current role like making cold calls; hooking in new clients with pithy-but-inspiring opening lines; following up with carefully crafted emails; listening to their pain points; and then offering up solutions that can solve their problems.

I'm eager to make a fresh start, and I want to use my cold calling and listening skills to help craft an even better solution with the product I'd be working on in this new role.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She was positive and talked about her excitement about the new role. She did say she started to stagnate in her current role though, so she should tweak that language a bit to make it more favorable to them.
* She talked about using her current skills to gain new skills and experiences as a sales manager.
* She framed this in the context of the new role and the new job she's applying for. She should make it even more about how excited she is about the products—and selling them—for the company she's applying to.

### Sample answer 2
> By Marketing Insights Manager Professional

I believe that the key to long-term professional growth is gathering critical, foundational experiences.

In my case, my aspiration is to lead a large multinational business in a general managerial capacity. To get there, I have identified a set of enabling experiences, and have been very intentional in choosing my roles and assignments so far. While I have learned an immense amount in my current role as a strategic insights marketing manager, I believe that it’s the right time to expand my learning with a new challenge.

Over the last 4 years, I have worked across a variety of marketing, strategy, and sales assignments across different global regions. I’ve built a strong understanding of how to sustainably grow brands & businesses through consumer-centric strategies.

In the next stage of my career, I’d like to lead a mid-sized business team by setting the long-term vision and translating that into short-term tactics. It’s also important to me to create an environment where my team can deliver great work while feeling empowered and energized.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate was able to distill key learnings from their current employment and identify additional growth areas.
* The answer outlined clear career goals and a progress plan.

### Sample answer 3
> By Marketing & Brand Manager Professional

I’ve enjoyed my time with my current employer, and have grown a lot in my role. In the past 2 years, I’ve successfully shipped several products that turned out to be very successful.

I believe that the next big trend for product development will be centered heavily around mobile shopping. My current company is looking at a possible move in this direction within a number of years, rather than months.

I’m interested in joining your team because the products you’re developing are in the exact area I’d like to explore and grow. This role would give me an opportunity to build a solid understanding of complex problems and how to navigate through ambiguity, preparing me to adapt to new challenges quickly.

I would also hone my data analytics skills, as I am already familiar with analyzing trends and insights in different customer segments and cohorts. And finally, I would strengthen my communication and leadership skills. As a product leader, it is super important to understand the resources, challenges, and priorities across the organization, and to drive synergy across teams.

I love that your team is lean and fast-moving, and I believe that my product management skills, drive, and enthusiasm would make me a great fit for the organization.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed an ability to recognize industry trends and opportunities.
* The answer outlined a strong career vision.
* Skills were tied directly to the job description.

### Sample answer 4
> By Data Engineering Analyst Professional

I enjoy my current role and am not actually actively pursuing a change. I am, however, very open to intellectually stimulating and challenging opportunities that will allow me to provide value.

I’m interested in a role where I am responsible to deliver and actively contribute towards company success. I am also seeking continued development and improvement, both personally and professionally.

Based on the job description and our discussions, this role does seem like a good match. I’ve long admired this company and am passionate about both the mission and the products. I believe that my record of success, unique experience, and background would make me an asset to the team.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed interest in further development and connected that ambition to the role.
* The answer included an openness to new challenges and passion for the company.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Brian Rumao, Hiring Manager

Hiring managers will often ask this question, and it's a test. Are you running away from something, or are you running towards something? The advice when you get this question is simple:

**Stay positive.** Employers want to see that you have a good attitude in general. Resist the temptation to say bad things about your current job, employer, or boss.

**Focus on where you’d like to go.** You should come off as someone who is looking forward, not backward. Portray your interests more in the light of what you want to get out of your next role.

**Bring it back to them.** Show them that you’ve done your homework about their company, and relate what you tell them back to the specific job you're interviewing for.

## Tips

* Don’t talk negatively about past roles or former bosses - employers don’t want to work with people who complain.
* Be gracious when things haven’t worked out in the past.
* Share some of the ways you’re working on improving.

---
