# Describe your most challenging project.

## Overview
Employers want to get a sense of what ‘challenging’ means to you. They also want to know how you handled the situation in a calm way. They’re looking for a storyline to prove that you can turn a bad story into a good story.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1

In my current role, I was in charge of leading a major marketing campaign for a new product launching nationwide.

The project was challenging both because of how large it was and because it involved constant communication with at least seven teams inside my company. Even though I tried to share the same information with everyone, it was clear that not everyone was on the same page.

Partway through, I discovered that some of the teams were not on schedule with their assigned tasks. The implications were significant, and a delay to the campaign would negatively impact our revenue goals.

I identified the root causes of the delays and set up a plan of action to address them. I planned in-depth one-on-one meetings with the team leaders to help re-inspire them. We talked about the goals and set ambitious targets for getting these last items across the finish line. I then organized and led status-update calls for the larger team and implemented a public dashboard to keep everyone accountable.

In the end, we did meet the marketing campaign deadlines and the product launch was a hit. The company hit their revenue goals and everyone on the sales team received a well-deserved bonus.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She told us about the potential for serious negative consequences.
* She described concrete action steps she took to overcome this challenge.
* She shared the positive results of her actions.

### Sample answer 2
> By Hardware Engineer Professional

I was brought into a project right before the ramp, when the existing team ran into a blocker issue. They were severely constrained in both resources and time, and didn’t have the bandwidth to address it.

Obviously, there was a lot at stake. The expectation was that I would quickly solve the issue, but I was coming in completely cold and the team was stressed and resistant to stop what they were doing to bring me up to speed.

Success required two things. First, I needed to clearly explain exactly what I needed from each team member — and why. Second, I needed to gather this information and context as quickly and efficiently as possible. Once the team realized that there was a process in place, they were very responsive.

With all the appropriate inputs, I was able to create a plan to solve the issue within just one week. The team just needed a point person to align everyone. Once I did that, we were able to get things back on track and deliver the project on time.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate was able to clearly articulate the challenges, requirements for success, and the use of soft and technical skills to solve a problem.
* The answer indicated a willingness to be adaptable, and the ability to meet aggressive deadlines.

### Sample answer 3
> By Program Manager Professional

While working for a major airline, I needed to adjust a financial model that shared revenue between all the airlines in our partnership.

The model used a common industry metric, RASM, to calculate unit revenue — based on the number of seats in an aircraft. But without a universal standard for airplane design, this metric favored some partners over others.

To fix this issue, I had to establish a standard without unwanted bias. The new system also needed to be set by an unbiased party. I reached out to contacts I had at our OEMs asking for support. Only a few firms build the majority of all aircraft, and each offered to have their engineering teams create a standard for my purposes.

The challenge came from several obstacles: the incredible depth of detail down to every last square foot of each aircraft in our fleet, close communication with partners and suppliers, clear direction for both business leaders and technical engineers, and the need to rally all partners to a cause that would benefit the collective.

Overall, clear communication and persistent attention to detail powered the successful completion of this project.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The level of detail demonstrated deep subject matter expertise.
* The candidate showed the ability to break down problems into smaller manageable pieces, creating a clear path forward that takes pros and cons into consideration.

### Sample answer 4
> By Data Engineering Analyst Professional

I was tasked with implementing a uniform data platform for a large, multinational company with tens of thousands of employees. It had to be done in such a way that it could be used by teams spread out all over the world.

There were several challenges associated with implementing a platform of this size and importance. We had to make sure the platform would be well-adopted, add value, and be approved by the executive team.

Besides the technical complexities of building such a platform, this project was also challenging because we had to influence global teams. To accomplish this, I created a high-level strategy. Then, I asked Senior VPs to nominate reports to form one global team that could represent the entire organization.

Ultimately, we succeeded in building a platform that was adopted globally, thanks to a strategic plan executed by a collaborative task force that incorporated both global needs and local aspirations.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* Leading a project of global scale demonstrates the ability to provide high-level strategy while being capable of localizing the executions.
* The candidate detailed the complications of the project and the action steps taken.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Have a clear story with a specific challenge.
* Describe the negative impact if you hadn’t resolved the issue.
* Discuss action steps you took and talk about the positive impact.

---
