# Tell me about something you’ve accomplished that you are proud of.

## Overview
This question assesses how you define a professional success. If the story resonates, the employer will want you to do similar things at his or her company. You should focus on the impact and outcomes.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1

When I first joined the company, I noticed that the existing monthly budgeting process was quite time-consuming and inefficient because it was highly manual.

There were errors and inaccuracies, and I took the initiative to implement a new budgeting template to automate the process and make it simpler.

I developed automated calculations using Excel and fill-in-the-blank lines for departments to submit their numbers. Then I designed and led a training for all relevant staff. The new system made it easier for the departments to provide their budgets in an error-free way.

Overall, we had 25% fewer errors in the next cycle of budgets and my team became 30% more efficient. My manager gave me a very strong review for the quarter and noted that she appreciated my initiative to automate and make the process a lot less cumbersome.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She started off by discussing the situation she inherited when she joined the company.
* She described the action steps she took to improve the situation.
* She quantified the positive results and relayed how impactful this was for her and her team.

### Sample answer 2
> By Marketing Insights Manager Professional

In my role on the innovation strategy team, I helped create a long-term innovation pipeline which led to multiple product launches for a critical business unit. While the company was a market leader in the space, we had been rapidly losing market share over the last few years.

My first action was to identify the root cause of our declines. Through a detailed analysis, I identified that our product lineup didn’t fully satisfy evolving consumer needs. I also examined our past product launches and found that they’d lacked differentiated utility.

I got approval from leadership to take an end-to-end approach using design thinking. We started with consumer immersions to understand how our products are used and which barriers we’d need to overcome. From there, we created new product concepts.

We tested the concepts with consumers and created a long-term innovation pipeline. Finally, we partnered with cross-functional teams to charter and launch 3 products in just 2 years. This increased market share for the first time in 5 years, and we have seen sustained sales growth ever since.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated the ability to think critically, develop a strategy, and execute a plan.
* The answer showed how those efforts led to a positive business result.

### Sample answer 3
> By Product Manager Professional

Only a few months into my role, I was asked to lead another product area because the team hadn’t been successful after several attempts.

I realized that the org itself posed a challenge. We were essentially operating as 3 separate teams on 3 different sites, in 3 different time zones. So, my first step was to visit each site to build trust and learn more about their priorities, since we would need buy-in from each team.

Next, I collaborated with the horizontal metrics team to determine a metric that would capture the value of the project, as well as each individual team’s success.

We assembled a team that consisted of engineers from each site and kicked off the project together. We set up a regular travel schedule to support this new team dynamic. When we hit technical issues, we were able to iterate quickly.

I’m really proud of the final product for a number of reasons: It was a hot potato that had failed multiple times. And the result is awesome. Not only by our numbers, but I personally know tons of people who really love using it. Finally, I was able to build meaningful relationships with multiple senior stakeholders.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate’s involvement was directly connected to the success of the project.
* The answer clearly outlined the problem solving steps, and showed dedication, and subject matter expertise.

### Sample answer 4
> By Marketing & Brand Manager Professional

In the last year, I led the launch of an entirely new e-commerce business channel within my company. Data showed us that users have a tendency to impulse buy on social media — and I saw an opportunity to embed a shopping feature in our social media app.

With just a lean team of two analysts, I led a 6 month research project in which we interviewed 100 people on how they use social media, exploring their interest and intent when they saw a product image.

I also had in-depth conversations with leaders of engineering, user research, and data scientists to understand what would be required to build this feature. Finally, we developed a cost analysis that detailed the resources and manpower we’d need to create a new division.

The preparation and research provided a strong enough case to be approved at the highest levels of leadership. The company implemented this new business channel and revenue stream, and I’m really proud to have played a key role in a huge growth moment.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated abilities to distill insights, identify key opportunity areas, and create actionable recommendations that led to new revenue streams.
* The answer included the detailed steps taken to execute a strategy.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Describe the problem that existed before you took action.
* Talk about how you took initiative to solve the problem.
* Explain why you are proud of the outcome and what would have happened if you hadn’t stepped in.

---
