# Can you explain your employment gap?

## Overview
This question isn’t designed to rule you out - it’s a good sign if you get the interview. Interviewers want to get more context about the gap and whether you’re still going to be a great fit for the role, despite the gap.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

Yes, so a few years ago I was working in Seattle as a global finance manager. I loved my job and got to travel all over the world.

My dad, who lives in Michigan, was diagnosed with dementia that same year, and my mom was having a hard time giving him the level of care he needed. I decided to put my career on pause and go help them.

I not only got to spend quality time with my parents and sister, but I was able to get their finances in order so that when it was time for him to enter a care home, they were in a great spot to afford it.

He's doing really well at the facility, so now I can refocus on my career.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* He told the truth; he left work to care for a family member.
* He delivered it with confidence and was unapologetic about the gap.
* He showcased the positive by explaining his action plan to keep his finance skills sharp.

### Sample answer 2
> By Marketing Insights Manager Professional

Looking at my resume, you’ll notice I have an employment gap of 5 months. I was relocating internationally and had to go through the administrative process of procuring my travel visa and work authorization permits. During this time, I couldn’t legally be employed abroad.

The time off was a blessing. It allowed me to recharge my batteries and use the time to stay current with industry and consumer trends. I took the opportunity to evaluate my career journey and make sure I was working towards my long-term goal of being a multinational general manager. Without the day-to-day hustle, I was able to be introspective and distill the lessons I’d taken away in previous roles, and start planning my intentions for the next.

I also used the time to read up on the latest developments in design thinking and innovation, and even took a couple online courses in these spaces. What initially seemed like a frustrating forced break ended up being a very positive period of time for me, and I was able to start my next chapter feeling inspired and refreshed.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer painted a picture of an ambitious self-starter.
* The candidate showed interest to learn and grow beyond his current role, which is valuable for cross-team collaboration in the future.

### Sample answer 3
> By Product Manager Professional

The 2-month gap on my resume was intentional. I wanted to leave space to prepare for a big international move and take the opportunity to travel. I’d been heads-down for much of my career, and this seemed like an ideal time to unplug.

Unfortunately, due to Covid-19, I didn’t end up moving or traveling, and the new job fell through. I’ve used the time to brush up on my Spanish through online tutoring, practice some new recipes, and make my way through a reading list that’s relevant for my next role.

I have also spent time thinking deeply about the contributions I’d like to make in the next chapter of my career and develop some concrete goals. Finally, I’ve been volunteering remotely with a London-based organization that I’m really excited about.

The unexpected time off has given me a chance to reevaluate some priorities and goals, find inspiration, and recharge for my next move.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed the ability to be productive during an unstructured time.
* The answer detailed skills and learnings that may be beneficial to an employer.

### Sample answer 4
> By Regional Sales Manager Professional

After experiencing a layoff, I created a list of things I wanted to accomplish with the time.

I had always wished for more time for creative pursuits like fiction writing, so I spent time developing a TV pilot and framework for a 10 episode arc. Letting my creative juices flow was very rewarding. I found the routine to be therapeutic, and the experience of creation to be invigorating.

I also researched companies I was interested in and kept a running list of job requirements that mirrored my own qualifications. I created a document that I could forward to a hiring manager that complimented my resume, highlighting specific skills and real-life experience. This exercise prompted me to evaluate my goals and skills, and to hone in on my next move.

The time was well spent. I harnessed my creative side, found inspiration, and created a tailored plan that truly captured my career ambitions.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated a self-starter mindset by creating structure.
* The time was used to reflect and accomplish goals.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

Most people are nervous about how a gap will be perceived—even if there's a good explanation, But if they’ve invited you in for an interview, then the gap hasn’t ruled you out. Here are some tips on how to discuss it:

**Be honest.** The truth will set you free. Try to put the situation into the best light and don't lie; it's bound to come back and haunt you. So if your job was eliminated through a merger, just say so.

**Speak with confidence.** For example, if you had taken some time away from working, avoid acting like you're embarrassed, apologetic or ashamed. The interviewer is going to pick up on that. Instead, pause and you see how they respond. The more calm, succinct and confident you are, the more at ease the interviewer will be with your answer—and with you.

**Show the benefits of your time off.** Bring up the good that came out of that time whether you were laid off, stepped away to be with family, or even got fired. It's a great way to reframe the situation and an opportunity to showcase some useful skills that you gained during that time.

## Tips

* Expect that they will ask about the gap - prepare for it.
* Answer honestly and strategically.
* Be confident and succinct.
* Shine a light on the good that came out of that time.

---
