# What are your salary expectations?

## Overview
If this question arises early, odds are that the interviewer is really asking: “Can we afford you?” If it arises much later, the interviewer may be hoping that your salary requirements are aligned to what they have budgeted for this role.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Mike Derezin, Hiring Manager

I've been doing some research on the market for the role of Sales Analyst.

What I found from LinkedIn's salary tool is that here in Chicago, base pay for these jobs tends to run between $61,000 and $71,000. Half the companies pay bonuses as well.

Given the global impact of your company, and the fact that candidates with Master's degrees, like me, are being recruited most heavily, I think we should be looking toward the top end of that range.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She started off by giving a salary range instead of a specific number.
* She brought neutral research to the table, which establishes her as someone who's trustworthy, bold and grounded.
* She did a credible job of showing why she should be at that higher range, which made her come across as confident and steady.

### Sample answer 2
> By Product Marketing Research Professional

Based on my current compensation and market research from resources like Glassdoor and levels.fyi, I am seeking a base salary within the range of $[dollar amount] to $[dollar amount]. I’ve seen similar roles that are offering $[dollar amount].

My specific experience and years in the field are closely aligned with this position, making me a strong candidate to be able to jump in and quickly add value.

That said, I understand that this base salary range might be on the higher end of the spectrum for a growing company, and I’m willing to consider a lesser base paired with a signing bonus or increase in restricted stock units. My intention is to grow with the company and invest myself in its success.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer was well-researched and demonstrated the value that the candidate could add to the company.
* The candidate provided a base salary range, as well as alternative forms of compensation.

### Sample answer 3
> By Business Portfolio Manager Professional

After researching market ranges from multiple sources online and taking into account my education, experience, and location, I’m targeting roles with base salaries in the range of [dollar amount].

Of course, I’m also taking into account opportunities for long-term growth with an emphasis on purpose-driven work as I evaluate and weigh options — and my values are closely aligned with your organization’s mission.

For this reason, I would be willing to negotiate base salary in exchange for a generous time-off policy. I intend to be a high performing asset to your company, and value time to recharge when appropriate.

Why this answer worked well:

* The answer showed enthusiasm for the company and its mission.
* The candidate was prepared with a suggestion that would compensate for a lower base salary.

### Sample answer 4
> By Marketing & Brand Manager Professional

It’s important to me any new role is positive from a work standpoint. I want the work that I’d be doing to be impactful, and I want to know that I can contribute meaningfully to the organization. That’s why I’m most interested in this role: My personal values and ambitions are aligned with the company’s mission.

As far as annual compensation, I’m open to how it is paid out, whether through base salary or a bonus structure. For a move to make sense to me, I would need the total compensation to be between [desired salary range].

Additionally, in future conversations, I’d also like to discuss how we might leverage the signing bonus to compensate for some of the long term Incentives like stock options that I’d be walking away from in my current role.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer offered a range instead of an exact figure, and suggested several ways that compensation could be structured.
* The candidate explained the value they’d like to offer the company, and expressed genuine interest in the role.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Mike Derezin, Hiring Manager

This is a question you'll get all too often, so here are a few tips to help you master the answer:

**Give them a salary range.** Let them know there’s room to negotiate (instead of starting with a specific number). Avoid going too low though, because that's going to work against your interests. And don’t go too high either, or you may freeze yourself out of the opportunity.

**Do some neutral research.** Give them a reasonable place to start from. You can use a resource like the LinkedIn Salary Tool to find out what other companies are paying people in this role and share with them what you learned about this salary range. Then they’ll have to base their compensation at least on those numbers because you've let them know what other similar organizations are giving to employees who do that job.

**Bring up signing bonuses.** Doing this can create a win-win situation for both parties. At the end of a negotiation, asking for extra money up top is often a way to bridge the gap between what you want and what you’re being offered.

## Tips

* Know the industry norms for similar jobs.
* Talk about ranges, rather than exact numbers.
* Make the case that you offer premium value.

---
