# What do you like to do outside of work?

## Overview
Interviewers want to know you’re going to be enjoyable to have around and not just that you have the hard skills for the job. Use this question to set yourself up as interesting, fun, curious, or a go-getter.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

A lot of my spare time lately has been dedicated to teaching myself how to shoot and edit instructional videos.

I've been a garage-sale shopper for several years, and I sell my finds on eBay to pay down my student loan debt. So far I've raised $11,000. People who find out that I do this often have a lot of questions about how to get started, how to find the best stuff, and how to market items on eBay.

So I've decided to put a few tutorials up on YouTube. That way people can learn through the videos—and I gain a new creative skill.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* He came off as resourceful, financially responsible, and willing to share his talents with others.
* He focused on how his interest helps with self-improvement.
* He made sure all his comments were appropriate.

### Sample answer 2
> By Product Manager Professional

I really love backpacking in different countries, especially with different cultures than the one I grew up in. I find that it allows me to disconnect and recharge from everyday life, while growing and learning something new. To date, I’ve backpacked either alone or with friends in over 20 countries, across Asia, South and Central America.

For our honeymoon, my wife and I travelled northern India for 6 weeks. It’s a very diverse region, home to Hindus, Muslims, and Buddhists, and we really enjoyed spending time in a few different states.

We did a diverse set of activities like hiking the Himalayas and Ladakh, finding cool hot springs, and Vipassana meditation. Vipassan is a 10 days of silence meditation. I’ve really connected with the technique and have found it to be a powerful way to focus my attention and reset myself.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed interest in learning from people with different backgrounds.
* The answer included hobbies centered around health and self-improvement.

### Sample answer 3
> By Procurement Manager Professional

Outside of work, I enjoy fitness training, perfecting my golf swing, writing and recording music, and taking care of my dogs.

This year I will be releasing my 4th album, which is all-instrumental, featuring classical guitar. I play every instrument and record tracks at my home office. Currently, two are streaming on iTunes and Amazon Music. I’m working towards a completion goal of late July.

I find that music is a wonderful creative outlet and stress-reliever, as well as a perfect balance for my demanding career. It allows me to set personal goals and achieve them, which is also true of physical fitness. I’ve found that keeping my mind and body sharp improve every single facet of my life.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate shows self awareness and self discipline.
* Hobbies are centered around wellness and creativity, both of which positively impact professional life.

### Sample answer 4
> By Marketing & Category Insights Manager Professional

My wife and 5 children are my top priority. As a family, we stay very active and enjoy outdoor activities like camping and waterskiing.

I played collegiate soccer and when 3 of my children joined teams, I took up coaching. I became so involved that the city requested my help in building out their recreational soccer training program.

I also volunteer with a youth group through our church. I act as a mentor, helping young men set and achieve their own goals. For example, if they want to learn how to do an oil change, I empower them to learn. I’ll help them track down a car, guide them in the research, then oversee the process.

As a father and community member, these activities have been enormously rewarding. It’s nice to feel like I’m making a difference in people’s lives.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate’s commitment to family, community, and volunteerism shows follow-through.
* The answer paints a picture of a productive and dependable team player.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

With this question, employers are looking to get a feel for your likability and cultural fit. So what should you say—and not say? Here are a few tips.

**Pick one of your favorites.** Go ahead and share something about your hobbies, volunteer work, or the places you enjoy traveling to. Maybe you're taking classes to help you accelerate your skills. In general, you just want to tell them something that's true and will paint you as an interesting, healthy, or good human being.

**Keep it short.** For example, if you're a bird watcher in your free time, skip the 22-minute account of every species you've ever documented. Share enthusiastically so your passion shines through, but don't ramble on endlessly. Doing so might give the people to whom you're trying to make a good impression the feeling that you're nervous or that brevity just isn't your strong suit.

**Stick to appropriate topics.** Avoid anything that might be pulverizing or offends somebody who's not a part of a particular group like politics or religion. Choose something uncontroversial or beneficial, and take advantage of the opportunity to show them that you're the complete package.

## Tips

* Share something that paints a favorable picture.
* Keep it short and sweet.
* Don’t bore them with long stories.
* Steer clear of the inappropriate zone.

---
