# Where do you see yourself in 5 years?

## Overview
Employers want to determine how serious you are about your career and whether your goals match the goals for this job. Employers don’t expect you to offer up a specific title you want. Instead, they want to know what you hope to accomplish.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

In the first two or three years, I plan to immerse myself in the position by leveraging my strong Excel knowledge to develop automated reports and processes. The goal would be to improve efficiencies and reduce time spent on manual tasks.

Within two to three years after that I see myself using that experience to help other departments develop similar efficiencies.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She broke it down into two-to-three year chunks.
* She explained what she could give in relation to her Excel skills rather than what she planned to get from the company.
* She avoided mentioning any job titles she hoped for in the future.

### Sample answer 2
> By Business Development Manager Professional

My professional experience has provided a strong foundation and invaluable insight into my strengths, interests, and areas of opportunity. In the next 5 years, my aim is to continue to build strong relationships and trust by establishing myself as an expert in my field. This will require dedicated investment both in and outside of my role, gathering new perspectives from partners, colleagues, and mentors.

I plan to spend the next 2-3 years honing my leadership skills. I’m a fast learner and enthusiastic student of the industry. In each role, I have sought mentorship, and would like to provide this kind of support to others in the future. I have enjoyed owning projects and leading collaborators, and believe that management is the next right path for me.

That’s just one reason why I’m drawn to your company. I’ve heard incredible things about your management training programs, and I am looking for an organization I can grow with. I believe that I have both the drive and the soft skills to be a real asset to your team for years to come.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate has a clear vision for their career and outlined how their goals can be an asset to the company.
* An interest in mentorship shows willingness to take guidance, as well as invest energy in others.

### Sample answer 3
> By Regional Sales Manager Professional

I really enjoy my current position and have been happy to contribute to the success of the company. Within the next 5 years, I see myself taking on greater responsibility through a senior leadership role. I feel that my experience, communication skills, and creative strengths would well position me to lead a nationwide or global sales team.

At this point in my career, I have already broadened my role by transitioning from a field rep to a regional manager. Under my guidance, the team has grown the regional revenue by 32% in just 15 months. We have also established a continued growth trajectory that projects 15% more growth within the next two quarters.

My professional accomplishments are a testament to my ability to perform at the highest level, and I look forward to the challenge of guiding a team to use a proven sales process to maximize revenue and margins.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate detailed the clear trajectory of their career path, and outlined a vision for the next phase.
* The answer quantified professional contributions and growth.

### Sample answer 4
> By Brand Marketing Manager Professional

In 5 years time, I see myself advancing to an executive level role leading the broader marketing function or leading the company’s effort to be a digital-first brand.

That being said, I’ve always seen myself as a business-leader first, marketer second. In order to be a well rounded business leader, and given the global nature of the company, I would like to do an international assignment within the next 2-3 years, ideally in Asia. My experience and expertise to date has been North America-centric and I would like to garner the experience of working in a different culture with different consumers and unique business challenges.

China and India have different go-to market business models, higher price sensitivity, smaller pack sizes, all of which requires a different approach and I would like to learn, grow and add value to this important region. This will give me invaluable experience on the different facets of the business and make me a better marketing leader for the company.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate has done their homework on the company, and has a plan to achieve their goals in ways that will help the company grow.
* The answer showed that the candidate is not just looking for a job. They’re looking for a career with this company, with ambition to succeed beyond the current scope of the role.

## Answer framework

**How to approach this question**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

The key to answering this question is to focus on what you can give to the employers or the role. Here are three tips:

**Break the time into chunks.** Let them know what you might do in each two-to-three year period. This helps the interviewer to visualize and see what you're describing. Take them through what you plan to do in the first few years and how you plan to take it up a notch in the years after that.

**Talk about how your goals will help them.** Paint a vivid picture about the value that you plan to deliver within each of those two-to-three year chunks that you described. 

**Avoid talking about job titles.** Resist the urge to tell them about what you want your position to be in two, three, or five years because that can come off as overly presumptuous.

## Tips

* Break the answer down in two to three year chunks.
* Focus on what you can give, rather than what you can get.
* Don’t bring up a specific job title that you want to move into one day.
* Make it specific to this particular company and position.

---
