# Tell me about a time you failed or made a mistake.

## Overview
Being able to admit to a mistake shows maturity and personal accountability. Employers want to know you’re self-aware and that you learn from past experiences. Errors are inevitable in any job - it’s how you handle them that matters.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

In my first job, my manager asked me to develop several forms of tracking projects. I said “yes” because I wanted to do everything my manager asked me to do.

But as I started working on the project, I realized I didn't understand the overall goal. And the project ended up creating templates that didn't meet my manager's expectations.

My manager was disappointed in me. She told me that if I had asked some clarifying questions, I would've gotten to a better work product. I admitted to my manager that I had made a mistake and learned that it doesn't make you look stupid if you ask clarifying questions.

I learned that it's better to speak up quickly. That's how I've handled those situations ever since.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She owned her mistake, going straight to the point and describing a situation with the right level of detail.
* She reflected on what she did wrong—not asking clarifying questions—and how that negatively impacted her work.
* She talked about what she learned from the experience.

### Sample answer 2
> By Program Manager Professional

During my first few months in network planning, I worked to launch a new international route for a major airline. Months of work and detailed analysis goes into every new route as many candidates are narrowed down to a few worthy of a multi-million dollar investment. Regardless, this work needs to be done at a rapid pace and with a high level of confidentiality.

My team moved quickly, and my work was shared with only a few key decision makers in the company to gain approval. Unfortunately, throughout the rapid pace of work, a few key stakeholders were left out of communications and felt unprepared. They were later left to scramble and quickly adapt when they heard about my project in the media.

Learning from my mistake, I developed a robust checklist of each communication that would be required prior to all subsequent launches. I also adapted it for other teams to help my peers avoid a similar oversight.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate addressed the question honestly, and described actions taken to avoid repeating the mistake.
* Adapting the solution for peers shows the candidate’s dedication to the company, and indicates a team player mentality.

### Sample answer 3
> By Regional Sales Manager Professional

While working in channel sales for a technology company that sold storage area network solutions, I made the mistake of announcing a new break/fix service that was not approved or rolled out internally yet.

I had jumped the gun in assuming it was ready to go. As a result, over 50 global channel partners received the new program and some of them had already initiated quotes for end users.

Once I realized my mistake, I sent out communication to the channel partners and owned up to it fully. Many reached out to me directly and were understandably confused and frustrated, but appreciated the transparency.

I offered to speak to their customers and help with any quotes that may have been stuck. Ultimately, we were able to roll out the product fairly shortly thereafter, and there were no serious consequences. But I had learned my lesson.

Since then, I’ve made more regular and effective communication a top priority. I make myself available and accessible to internal and external partners to keep a steady stream of information and updates flowing to avoid preventable errors.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed that they are willing to hold themselves accountable and take direct action to solve problems.
* The answer outlined steps taken to avoid similar mistakes in the future, demonstrating a learning mentality.

### Sample answer 4
> By Digital Analytics Manager Professional

As a second year digital executive at a leading snacks brand, I had an opportunity to either renew past sponsorships or seek new opportunities to associate our brand with top sports and entertainment properties.

When I extended our contracts in fantasy football, I had my doubts of the effectiveness of the partnership and the overall lack of novelty after so many years.

Compared to the actual NFL, fantasy football has a limited number of extremely dedicated fans and users. We had a true tradeoff of reach versus frequency. I worked with our agency partners to slash costs and develop numerous versions of compelling sweepstakes.

We refreshed the creative constantly and monitored performance aggressively to avoid a negative ROI.

But, despite all efforts, we struggled to get fans to engage. I wish I had trusted the numbers and my own intuition to consider other programs that would have been a much bigger success.

It’s not easy to quickly acclimate at a top CPG company, but that experience taught me to bet on myself, seek mentors who can help guide me in a new culture, and never forget the importance of thanking teammates and partners for their hard work.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate took initiative to keep the work on track, but also owned the underperformance.
* The answer set up the challenge and detailed the range of strategies that were attempted.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results. 

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Use an honest example that’s believable.
* Explain why it was a mistake.
* Talk about what you’ve learned and any steps you’ve taken to show that you’re “working on it”.

---
