# Tell me about a time you had to persuade someone.

## Overview
This question is all about sizing up your emotional intelligence. Interviewers are looking for problem solvers, not shouters. Strong answers showcase your listening skills and your ability to guide people to better choices.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Caroline Gaffney, Hiring Manager

The day before a major management review, I was told we only had ten minutes to present our project. We had originally been promised fifteen.

Most of our team members agreed to shorten their remarks. One person refused to make changes. I suggested that we sit down over coffee and talk about it. I started by listening, letting him explain how hard he'd worked.

I realized the issue wasn't about the length of his speech but more about him being recognized for doing a thorough job and getting his presentation together. He was proud of his work.

So, we talked about another way of recognizing his efforts by acknowledging him in our team newsletter. When we wrapped up that part of the conversation, he volunteered to shorten his part of his speech.

By treating his contributions with respect, I guided him to a better outcome.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* He created an alternate path that supported this coworker’s goal without wrecking the entire project.
* He summed it up well at the end showing how he can be persuasive without dominating the conversation.

### Sample answer 2
> By Product Manager Professional

At a key moment in my previous role, my team was trying to balance the growth of our user base and safety of users. We were exploring many solutions for this problem, and my role was to align the team.

Our engineering manager had a strong perspective on a solution that was technically straightforward, but did not fully address both needs. Our designer wanted to implement a more complicated, but comprehensive solution. I believed that the latter seemed like the appropriate course of action, but it needed an additional layer of depth to fully address concerns from all parties.

First, I partnered with the designer to outline the solution and create a framework that detailed key benefits and potential downsides. Next, I brought in an engineering counterpart to break down the costs and timing implications of building a comprehensive solution.

These inputs enabled a strong case for the more complicated, but ultimately more meaningful solution. Enthusiastic team alignment made timely leadership buy-in possible.

While I had to invest more detail work upfront, we were able to shave off a few weeks by broadening our technical brainstorms throughout the early stages — which allowed us to complete the project ahead of schedule

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated the ability to identify project gaps and build a strong case towards the more optimal solution.
* The answer clearly outlined the approaches and strategies behind each action, which ultimately lead to improved efficiency and timely delivery.

### Sample answer 3
> By Business Portfolio Manager Professional

I had just started leading special projects for the CEO of our wholesale division. He was very particular about data models and gave line-item feedback, which caused extra work for the team.

I felt strongly that there was a better way to complete the work. My boss and I pitched a new model, but it was shot down. I realized that he needed to see it in action.

During the next review, I showed the old model and the CEO listed his changes. I then pulled out my new model and showed him all of the options he was able to clarify. He was surprised that I could modify variables so quickly to give him immediate feedback.

He wasn’t an unreasonable person, he just had a system that worked for him. We made a successful, time-saving update because I took the time to understand his motivations, learn how to speak his language, and find a solution to his pain points.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed strategic thinking and perseverance in taking the time to convince leadership to adopt a new approach.
* The solution demonstrates the candidate’s ability to identify valuable process improvements.

### Sample answer 4
> By Brand Marketing Manager Professional

As a software engineer, I had to persuade my marketing and sales teams that deploying a new version of the software was the right thing for our consumers and clients because the existing version was vulnerable to cyber attacks.

The teams were against a new version because they believed it would cause client dissatisfaction. Additionally, these security enhancements came with a 23% cost increase.

To reframe the value equation, I took three steps. First, I enrolled leading cyber attack experts to educate everyone on the impending risks from foreign entities. This reinforced the urgent business imperative of investing in secured systems.

Next, I partnered with my finance team and determined that the cost of “fixing” systems after an attack amounted to a 77% increase in spend — to say nothing of intangibles like reputational damage.

Finally, I hired a market research group to bring a group of "non-techy" folks to conduct a live, in-person demo of our new interface. The group demonstrated the new software with ease.

Marketing and sales were so convinced that they asked me to join them in key client meetings to lead the sales pitch myself. Clients not only loved the new system, but revenues increased by 32% with the development of a premium version.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer clearly laid out the scenario, challenges, and steps.
* The candidate’s actions were a blend of strategic, cross-functional, and technical skills, resulting in quantifiable success.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Pick an issue where your agenda is in the broader interest.
* Show how your careful listening helped you reframe the controversy.
* Explain how the other person’s change of heart led to a better outcome for all.

---
