# Tell me about a time you disagreed with someone.

## Overview
Occasional conflicts are a fact of life. Interviewers want to see if you can work through those tensions in a respectful way. If you helped steer things toward a good compromise, that’s a big plus. Signs of anger or bitterness will count against you.

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Jenny Foss, Career Strategist at linkedin-corp

My team was given a new goal: to sell our product to a new customer segment that we hadn’t served in the past.

The group had strong opinions about the approach we should take. In spite of their voices, I had concerns about their strategy; I thought it may fail as it didn't align with the client’s core needs. But I was in the minority and when I spoke up I wasn't heard. I needed to find another way to make the case to my teammates.

I set up a focus group with a potential client so my team could understand the challenges and priorities of the people we aimed to serve. The great news was they saw that our planned product wouldn't meet these needs, but if we made some slight adjustments to the service, we could deliver something of real value. The team rallied behind this and got on board.

We were ultimately successful in bringing this client onboard—and ten more!

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She shared a succinct example of a time when her opinion was in the minority.
* She came up with a creative way to change her team’s perspective.
* She used this new strategy and described how well it worked.

### Sample answer 2
> By Marketing Insights Manager Professional

During my time on the growth strategy team, I partnered with various brand and finance teams to create a promotion and events calendar to maximize portfolio performance. This was especially challenging because each brand team was only responsible for their brand’s performance, while my job was to help ensure that the entire portfolio succeeds. This created an inherent discord in the exercise.

In the past, teams would look back at the previous year’s events with the goal of essentially replicating them. It occurred to me that this may not be the most efficient way to plan the calendar, since the process didn’t involve any real evaluation of success.

My partners were reluctant to let go of the existing process. To get buy-in, I prepared two scenarios. One used the old approach. The other used my new suggested approach with event evaluation criteria — showing both the monthly and total year sales estimate for each brand, as well as the entire portfolio. To make sure my case was airtight, I’d pre-worked with other cross-functional teams to ensure that the new projections were compatible with monthly product supply numbers and trade allowances.

I was able to get buy-in and implement the new process, which has allowed us to factor in accurate estimates, measure success, and increase the efficiency of event planning.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer demonstrated the candidate’s ability to evaluate and optimize an existing process, using data and key performance metrics.
* The candidate showed flexibility in his approach through scenario planning, seeking a win-win solution for all partners.
* The outcome was a more strategic process and a net positive for the company.

### Sample answer 3
> By Procurement Manager Professional

A few years ago, I was asked to give a presentation on best practices in procuring transportation. One of my suggestions was to change the lane hierarchy for which we procure rates as well as changing the hierarchy we used to build routing guides in our transportation management system. The Director of Transportation did not agree, which created some tension.

I explained to the leadership team how the change would allow us to capture all the operational requirements and help carriers to know exactly where they are sending trucks. I quickly realized that the director was concerned that the change would require more personnel and thus more budget. So, I created a presentation to detail how the new plan could save up to 5%, which would help cover more than 2 additional temporary employees. That convinced the team.

Ultimately, my plan did even better than expected, with a savings of 7% — approximately 34 million dollars. As a result, I was given more latitude on future procurement-related decisions, in which I employed target pricing and multi-year deals that saved the company even more.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The answer laid out the challenge clearly and quantified success.
* The candidate demonstrated the ability to dive into stakeholders’ concerns and create consensus.
* The answer highlighted both soft and technical skills utilized to solve a conflict and improve the company’s bottom line.

### Sample answer 4
> By Marketing & Category Insights Manager Professional

My organization had prioritized the growth of a certain part of the business, and we were all in a room discussing the best way to drive it. The cross-functional group had starkly different opinions. One senior level team member suggested that we “force” the customers to make necessary changes by threatening to pull funding.

This set off warning sirens in my mind because my team would be responsible for carrying this out. I responded by acknowledging his idea as a novel approach. Then I mentioned that in the past I’d found it effective to offer incentives — rather than threats — to solve a problem or close a gap. I suggested that we offer the customer promotions in Q4 if they were able to execute our new strategy by Q3. I wanted to shift the conversation in a more positive direction and discuss ideas that would be mutually beneficial.

It worked, and the group began to brainstorm which customer pain points we could help solve, and how we could inspire their cooperation.

We ended up giving them additional incremental promotions, as well as participating in one of their corporate events. Not only did we solve their Q4 gap, but we grew our business by 2.3% that year.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated the ability to manage a potentially confrontational project by successfully aligning all stakeholders and guiding them towards an alternate solution.
* The solution offered was customer-centric, and still managed to increase the company’s bottom line.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Pick an example involving business practices - avoid personal quarrels.
* Calmly explain both sides’ point of view.
* Show how a compromise or a fuller understanding led to a good outcome.

---
