# Tell me about a time you had to handle pressure.

## Overview
Some jobs are high-stress and interviewers will test you to see if you can handle the heat. You’ll get partial credit for talking about your heroic efforts to get everything done, but you’ll get more points if you’ve enlisted allies

## Candidate answer and feedback

### Sample answer 1
> By Caroline Gaffney, Hiring Manager

I was working on my company's big quarterly project update when two team members left unexpectedly and we were short-handed with three weeks to go.

I convened an urgent strategy session where we identified all the projects they were involved in and mapped out our action plan. We shared the most important tasks within the team and got them all done in time.

We canceled two optional features that could wait a quarter, and we reached out to a former intern who was able to deliver 15 hours of remote work in the last weekend sprint before the deadline.

We were able to complete the project without a delay and delivered on all the essential deliverables by being creative, strategic, and very focused.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* She described herself as a friendly leader who got to work addressing the challenge for the entire team.
* She took us through a strategy where she focused on the most important elements and deprioritized the rest.
* She was creative and resourceful by finding an unexpected ally to help her through this challenge.

### Sample answer 2
> By Program Manager Professional

During my time as an analyst for a major airline, I was pulled into a special project where we were asked to look at a potential merger scenario with another carrier. Due to the confidentiality of the project, I was unable to work with peers or use my normal channels for support, and was required to meet a demanding work schedule in order to complete our evaluation in the allotted time.

While this project leveraged some of my existing skills, there was still a lot I needed to learn about our acquisition target to complete the work. I made my family aware that I’d need to temporarily shift my evening hours to work. This proactive communication prevented me from facing compounding pressure.

I also made sure to communicate daily with my VP. He knew the unique challenge I was facing and could provide guidance, but only if he knew where to help. So I set up daily check-ins with him to show him my progress and receive feedback in a 1:1 setting outside of our normal working group. This added communication helped me avoid any surprises, eased stress, and allowed me to successfully manage and complete an unfamiliar project.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate demonstrated flexibility by being willing to deviate from a normal workflow.
* The candidate demonstrated the ability to learn new skills and processes quickly.

### Sample answer 3
> By Procurement Manager Professional

When I was working as a Systems Integration Manager, I was responsible for onboarding a client to our TMS (transportation management solution) on a tight timeline. This was challenging because the client managed their own transportation independently. None of their data or invoicing for freight was centralized, and I was missing a lot of information.

We needed to hit our target go-live date because my company had already hired employees for the account and needed the revenue. I knew that I needed to get the info by the end of the week to ensure that I could validate assumptions used for RFP, margin, resource leveling, and so on.

I set up a call with the client and they explained that they were short on manpower and would need more time. I offered to visit the sites, conduct the interviews, complete the site and freight profiles, and take all necessary photos. Once I gathered the information, my team keyed in the data and we hit our go-live date without a moment to spare.

The project was a success. We hit our revenue numbers as planned, no money was lost, and all parties were very pleased. Thanks to the extra effort, our relationship with that client is stronger than ever.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The candidate showed leadership by going the extra mile to accomplish a goal for both the company and the client.
* Success was framed in a way that captured both the short-term impact to the project (meeting sales goals) and the long-term benefit to company growth (strengthening a business relationship).

### Sample answer 4
> By Enterprise Program Manager Professional

I led a rapid, three month-long company-wide initiative to help customers reduce their carbon footprint.

To accomplish this goal within an aggressive timeline, I led a team of five subject matter experts to design a new service offering targeting the manufacturing, mining, chemical, and electronics industries. We assessed their current carbon and environmental waste output, and identified areas and opportunities for reduction in a phased approach.

We conducted interviews and focus groups with customers, academics, and government officials who had vested interest in sustainability. We then synthesized the findings from the interviews by identifying user profiles and personas across each customer segment, as well as any gaps in key segment profiles and service offering competencies.

Finally, we kicked off work around third-party partnerships to assess skills and competencies that complement each other, taking cultural alignment and vision into account.

Once the service offering was designed, we conducted a pilot program and defined the SKUs, pricing structure, and legal contracts in collaboration with internal stakeholders.

It was a high pressure project, due to the scale of the effort and aggressiveness of the timeline, but results were impressive — generating $10M in attach run rate annually.

**Why this answer worked well:**

* The example showed the candidate’s expertise and ability to lead complex initiatives.
* The candidate’s contribution was directly tied to a significant increase in annual revenue.

## Answer framework

**How to approach past experience questions**

> By Linda Raynier CPA, CA, Career Strategist

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.

**Describe the situation.** Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.

**Get into the action.** Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.

**Show the results.** Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

## Tips

* Be clear about the project goal.
* Establish that you’re a strong person who doesn’t get flustered easily.
* Show your ingenious side, too, especially if your path to success involved redefining the task or enlisting colleagues.

---
